Matthew 1:1 βιβλος γενεσεως ιησου χριστου υιου δαβιδ υιου αβρααμ
Matthew 1:1 The book of the generation of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham.
Matthew 1:2 αβρααμ εγεννησεν τον ισαακ ισαακ δε εγεννησεν τον ιακωβ ιακωβ δε εγεννησεν τον ιουδαν και τους αδελφους αυτου
Matthew 1:2 Abraham begat Isaac; and Isaac begat Jacob; and Jacob begat Judas and his brethren;
Matthew 1:3 ιουδας δε εγεννησεν τον φαρες και τον ζαρα εκ της θαμαρ φαρες δε εγεννησεν τον εσρωμ εσρωμ δε εγεννησεν τον αραμ
Matthew 1:3 And Judas begat Phares and Zara of Thamar; and Phares begat Esrom; and Esrom begat Aram;
Matthew 1:4 αραμ δε εγεννησεν τον αμιναδαβ αμιναδαβ δε εγεννησεν τον ναασσων ναασσων δε εγεννησεν τον σαλμων
Matthew 1:4 And Aram begat Aminadab; and Aminadab begat Naasson; and Naasson begat Salmon;
Matthew 1:5 σαλμων δε εγεννησεν τον βοοζ εκ της ραχαβ βοοζ δε εγεννησεν τον ωβηδ εκ της ρουθ ωβηδ δε εγεννησεν τον ιεσσαι
Matthew 1:5 And Salmon begat Booz of Rachab; and Booz begat Obed of Ruth; and Obed begat Jesse;
Matthew 1:6 ιεσσαι δε εγεννησεν τον δαβιδ τον βασιλεα δαβιδ δε ο βασιλευς εγεννησεν τον σολομωντα εκ της του ουριου
Matthew 1:6 And Jesse begat David the king; and David the king begat Solomon of her that had been the wife of Urias;
Matthew 1:7 σολομων δε εγεννησεν τον ροβοαμ ροβοαμ δε εγεννησεν τον αβια αβια δε εγεννησεν τον ασα
Matthew 1:7 And Solomon begat Roboam; and Roboam begat Abia; and Abia begat Asa;
Matthew 1:8 ασα δε εγεννησεν τον ιωσαφατ ιωσαφατ δε εγεννησεν τον ιωραμ ιωραμ δε εγεννησεν τον οζιαν
Matthew 1:8 And Asa begat Josaphat; and Josaphat begat Joram; and Joram begat Ozias;
Matthew 1:9 οζιας δε εγεννησεν τον ιωαθαμ ιωαθαμ δε εγεννησεν τον αχαζ αχαζ δε εγεννησεν τον εζεκιαν
Matthew 1:9 And Ozias begat Joatham; and Joatham begat Achaz; and Achaz begat Ezekias;
Matthew 1:10 εζεκιας δε εγεννησεν τον μανασση μανασσης δε εγεννησεν τον αμων αμων δε εγεννησεν τον ιωσιαν
Matthew 1:10 And Ezekias begat Manasses; and Manasses begat Amon; and Amon begat Josias;
Matthew 1:11 ιωσιας δε εγεννησεν τον ιεχονιαν και τους αδελφους αυτου επι της μετοικεσιας βαβυλωνος
Matthew 1:11 And Josias begat Jechonias and his brethren, about the time they were carried away to Babylon:
Matthew 1:12 μετα δε την μετοικεσιαν βαβυλωνος ιεχονιας εγεννησεν τον σαλαθιηλ σαλαθιηλ δε εγεννησεν τον ζοροβαβελ
Matthew 1:12 And after they were brought to Babylon, Jechonias begat Salathiel; and Salathiel begat Zorobabel;
Matthew 1:13 ζοροβαβελ δε εγεννησεν τον αβιουδ αβιουδ δε εγεννησεν τον ελιακειμ ελιακειμ δε εγεννησεν τον αζωρ
Matthew 1:13 And Zorobabel begat Abiud; and Abiud begat Eliakim; and Eliakim begat Azor;
Matthew 1:14 αζωρ δε εγεννησεν τον σαδωκ σαδωκ δε εγεννησεν τον αχειμ αχειμ δε εγεννησεν τον ελιουδ
Matthew 1:14 And Azor begat Sadoc; and Sadoc begat Achim; and Achim begat Eliud;
Matthew 1:15 ελιουδ δε εγεννησεν τον ελεαζαρ ελεαζαρ δε εγεννησεν τον ματθαν ματθαν δε εγεννησεν τον ιακωβ
Matthew 1:15 And Eliud begat Eleazar; and Eleazar begat Matthan; and Matthan begat Jacob;
Matthew 1:16 ιακωβ δε εγεννησεν τον ιωσηφ τον ανδρα μαριας εξ ης εγεννηθη ιησους ο λεγομενος χριστος
Matthew 1:16 And Jacob begat Joseph the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus, who is called Christ.
Matthew 1:17 πασαι ουν αι γενεαι απο αβρααμ εως δαβιδ γενεαι δεκατεσσαρες και απο δαβιδ εως της μετοικεσιας βαβυλωνος γενεαι δεκατεσσαρες και απο της μετοικεσιας βαβυλωνος εως του χριστου γενεαι δεκατεσσαρες
Matthew 1:17 So all the generations from Abraham to David are fourteen generations; and from David until the carrying away into Babylon are fourteen generations; and from the carrying away into Babylon unto Christ are fourteen generations.
Matthew 1:18 του δε ιησου χριστου η γεννησις ουτως ην μνηστευθεισης γαρ της μητρος αυτου μαριας τω ιωσηφ πριν η συνελθειν αυτους ευρεθη εν γαστρι εχουσα εκ πνευματος αγιου
Matthew 1:18 Now the birth of Jesus Christ was on this wise: When as his mother Mary was espoused to Joseph, before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Ghost.
Matthew 1:19 ιωσηφ δε ο ανηρ αυτης δικαιος ων και μη θελων αυτην παραδειγματισαι εβουληθη λαθρα απολυσαι αυτην
Matthew 1:19 Then Joseph her husband, being a just man, and not willing to make her a publick example, was minded to put her away privily.
Matthew 1:20 ταυτα δε αυτου ενθυμηθεντος ιδου αγγελος κυριου κατ οναρ εφανη αυτω λεγων ιωσηφ υιος δαβιδ μη φοβηθης παραλαβειν μαριαμ την γυναικα σου το γαρ εν αυτη γεννηθεν εκ πνευματος εστιν αγιου
Matthew 1:20 But while he thought on these things, behold, the angel of the LORD appeared unto him in a dream, saying, Joseph, thou son of David, fear not to take unto thee Mary thy wife: for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Ghost.
Matthew 1:21 τεξεται δε υιον και καλεσεις το ονομα αυτου ιησουν αυτος γαρ σωσει τον λαον αυτου απο των αμαρτιων αυτων
Matthew 1:21 And she shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name JESUS: for he shall save his people from their sins.
Matthew 1:22 τουτο δε ολον γεγονεν ινα πληρωθη το ρηθεν υπο του κυριου δια του προφητου λεγοντος
Matthew 1:22 Now all this was done, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken of the Lord by the prophet, saying,
Matthew 1:23 ιδου η παρθενος εν γαστρι εξει και τεξεται υιον και καλεσουσιν το ονομα αυτου εμμανουηλ ο εστιν μεθερμηνευομενον μεθ ημων ο θεος
Matthew 1:23 Behold, a virgin shall be with child, and shall bring forth a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted is, God with us.
Matthew 1:24 διεγερθεις δε ο ιωσηφ απο του υπνου εποιησεν ως προσεταξεν αυτω ο αγγελος κυριου και παρελαβεν την γυναικα αυτου
Matthew 1:24 Then Joseph being raised from sleep did as the angel of the Lord had bidden him, and took unto him his wife:
Matthew 1:25 και ουκ εγινωσκεν αυτην εως ου ετεκεν τον υιον αυτης τον πρωτοτοκον και εκαλεσεν το ονομα αυτου ιησουν
Matthew 1:25 And knew her not till she had brought forth her firstborn son: and he called his name JESUS.
Matthew 2:1 του δε ιησου γεννηθεντος εν βηθλεεμ της ιουδαιας εν ημεραις ηρωδου του βασιλεως ιδου μαγοι απο ανατολων παρεγενοντο εις ιεροσολυμα
Matthew 2:1 Now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judaea in the days of Herod the king, behold, there came wise men from the east to Jerusalem,
Matthew 2:2 λεγοντες που εστιν ο τεχθεις βασιλευς των ιουδαιων ειδομεν γαρ αυτου τον αστερα εν τη ανατολη και ηλθομεν προσκυνησαι αυτω
Matthew 2:2 Saying, Where is he that is born King of the Jews? for we have seen his star in the east, and are come to worship him.
Matthew 2:3 ακουσας δε ηρωδης ο βασιλευς εταραχθη και πασα ιεροσολυμα μετ αυτου
Matthew 2:3 When Herod the king had heard these things, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him.
Matthew 2:4 και συναγαγων παντας τους αρχιερεις και γραμματεις του λαου επυνθανετο παρ αυτων που ο χριστος γενναται
Matthew 2:4 And when he had gathered all the chief priests and scribes of the people together, he demanded of them where Christ should be born.
Matthew 2:5 οι δε ειπον αυτω εν βηθλεεμ της ιουδαιας ουτως γαρ γεγραπται δια του προφητου
Matthew 2:5 And they said unto him, In Bethlehem of Judaea: for thus it is written by the prophet,
Matthew 2:6 και συ βηθλεεμ γη ιουδα ουδαμως ελαχιστη ει εν τοις ηγεμοσιν ιουδα εκ σου γαρ εξελευσεται ηγουμενος οστις ποιμανει τον λαον μου τον ισραηλ
Matthew 2:6 And thou Bethlehem, in the land of Juda, art not the least among the princes of Juda: for out of thee shall come a Governor, that shall rule my people Israel.
Matthew 2:7 τοτε ηρωδης λαθρα καλεσας τους μαγους ηκριβωσεν παρ αυτων τον χρονον του φαινομενου αστερος
Matthew 2:7 Then Herod, when he had privily called the wise men, enquired of them diligently what time the star appeared.
Matthew 2:8 και πεμψας αυτους εις βηθλεεμ ειπεν πορευθεντες ακριβως εξετασατε περι του παιδιου επαν δε ευρητε απαγγειλατε μοι οπως καγω ελθων προσκυνησω αυτω
Matthew 2:8 And he sent them to Bethlehem, and said, Go and search diligently for the young child; and when ye have found him, bring me word again, that I may come and worship him also.
Matthew 2:9 οι δε ακουσαντες του βασιλεως επορευθησαν και ιδου ο αστηρ ον ειδον εν τη ανατολη προηγεν αυτους εως ελθων εστη επανω ου ην το παιδιον
Matthew 2:9 When they had heard the king, they departed; and, lo, the star, which they saw in the east, went before them, till it came and stood over where the young child was.
Matthew 2:10 ιδοντες δε τον αστερα εχαρησαν χαραν μεγαλην σφοδρα
Matthew 2:10 When they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceeding great joy.
Matthew 2:11 και ελθοντες εις την οικιαν ευρον το παιδιον μετα μαριας της μητρος αυτου και πεσοντες προσεκυνησαν αυτω και ανοιξαντες τους θησαυρους αυτων προσηνεγκαν αυτω δωρα χρυσον και λιβανον και σμυρναν
Matthew 2:11 And when they were come into the house, they saw the young child with Mary his mother, and fell down, and worshipped him: and when they had opened their treasures, they presented unto him gifts; gold, and frankincense and myrrh.
Matthew 2:12 και χρηματισθεντες κατ οναρ μη ανακαμψαι προς ηρωδην δι αλλης οδου ανεχωρησαν εις την χωραν αυτων
Matthew 2:12 And being warned of God in a dream that they should not return to Herod, they departed into their own country another way.
Matthew 2:13 αναχωρησαντων δε αυτων ιδου αγγελος κυριου φαινεται κατ οναρ τω ιωσηφ λεγων εγερθεις παραλαβε το παιδιον και την μητερα αυτου και φευγε εις αιγυπτον και ισθι εκει εως αν ειπω σοι μελλει γαρ ηρωδης ζητειν το παιδιον του απολεσαι αυτο
Matthew 2:13 And when they were departed, behold, the angel of the Lord appeareth to Joseph in a dream, saying, Arise, and take the young child and his mother, and flee into Egypt, and be thou there until I bring thee word: for Herod will seek the young child to destroy him.
Matthew 2:14 ο δε εγερθεις παρελαβεν το παιδιον και την μητερα αυτου νυκτος και ανεχωρησεν εις αιγυπτον
Matthew 2:14 When he arose, he took the young child and his mother by night, and departed into Egypt:
Matthew 2:15 και ην εκει εως της τελευτης ηρωδου ινα πληρωθη το ρηθεν υπο του κυριου δια του προφητου λεγοντος εξ αιγυπτου εκαλεσα τον υιον μου
Matthew 2:15 And was there until the death of Herod: that it might be fulfilled which was spoken of the Lord by the prophet, saying, Out of Egypt have I called my son.
Matthew 2:16 τοτε ηρωδης ιδων οτι ενεπαιχθη υπο των μαγων εθυμωθη λιαν και αποστειλας ανειλεν παντας τους παιδας τους εν βηθλεεμ και εν πασιν τοις οριοις αυτης απο διετους και κατωτερω κατα τον χρονον ον ηκριβωσεν παρα των μαγων
Matthew 2:16 Then Herod, when he saw that he was mocked of the wise men, was exceeding wroth, and sent forth, and slew all the children that were in Bethlehem, and in all the coasts thereof, from two years old and under, according to the time which he had diligently enquired of the wise men.
Matthew 2:17 τοτε επληρωθη το ρηθεν υπο ιερεμιου του προφητου λεγοντος
Matthew 2:17 Then was fulfilled that which was spoken by Jeremy the prophet, saying,
Matthew 2:18 φωνη εν ραμα ηκουσθη θρηνος και κλαυθμος και οδυρμος πολυς ραχηλ κλαιουσα τα τεκνα αυτης και ουκ ηθελεν παρακληθηναι οτι ουκ εισιν
Matthew 2:18 In Rama was there a voice heard, lamentation, and weeping, and great mourning, Rachel weeping for her children, and would not be comforted, because they are not.
Matthew 2:19 τελευτησαντος δε του ηρωδου ιδου αγγελος κυριου κατ οναρ φαινεται τω ιωσηφ εν αιγυπτω
Matthew 2:19 But when Herod was dead, behold, an angel of the Lord appeareth in a dream to Joseph in Egypt,
Matthew 2:20 λεγων εγερθεις παραλαβε το παιδιον και την μητερα αυτου και πορευου εις γην ισραηλ τεθνηκασιν γαρ οι ζητουντες την ψυχην του παιδιου
Matthew 2:20 Saying, Arise, and take the young child and his mother, and go into the land of Israel: for they are dead which sought the young child's life.
Matthew 2:21 ο δε εγερθεις παρελαβεν το παιδιον και την μητερα αυτου και ηλθεν εις γην ισραηλ
Matthew 2:21 And he arose, and took the young child and his mother, and came into the land of Israel.
Matthew 2:22 ακουσας δε οτι αρχελαος βασιλευει επι της ιουδαιας αντι ηρωδου του πατρος αυτου εφοβηθη εκει απελθειν χρηματισθεις δε κατ οναρ ανεχωρησεν εις τα μερη της γαλιλαιας
Matthew 2:22 But when he heard that Archelaus did reign in Judaea in the room of his father Herod, he was afraid to go thither: notwithstanding, being warned of God in a dream, he turned aside into the parts of Galilee:
Matthew 2:23 και ελθων κατωκησεν εις πολιν λεγομενην ναζαρετ οπως πληρωθη το ρηθεν δια των προφητων οτι ναζωραιος κληθησεται
Matthew 2:23 And he came and dwelt in a city called Nazareth: that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophets, He shall be called a Nazarene.
Matthew 3:1 εν δε ταις ημεραις εκειναις παραγινεται ιωαννης ο βαπτιστης κηρυσσων εν τη ερημω της ιουδαιας
Matthew 3:1 In those days came John the Baptist, preaching in the wilderness of Judaea,
Matthew 3:2 και λεγων μετανοειτε ηγγικεν γαρ η βασιλεια των ουρανων
Matthew 3:2 And saying, Repent ye: for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.
Matthew 3:3 ουτος γαρ εστιν ο ρηθεις υπο ησαιου του προφητου λεγοντος φωνη βοωντος εν τη ερημω ετοιμασατε την οδον κυριου ευθειας ποιειτε τας τριβους αυτου
Matthew 3:3 For this is he that was spoken of by the prophet Esaias, saying, The voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make his paths straight.
Matthew 3:4 αυτος δε ο ιωαννης ειχεν το ενδυμα αυτου απο τριχων καμηλου και ζωνην δερματινην περι την οσφυν αυτου η δε τροφη αυτου ην ακριδες και μελι αγριον
Matthew 3:4 And the same John had his raiment of camel's hair, and a leathern girdle about his loins; and his meat was locusts and wild honey.
Matthew 3:5 τοτε εξεπορευετο προς αυτον ιεροσολυμα και πασα η ιουδαια και πασα η περιχωρος του ιορδανου
Matthew 3:5 Then went out to him Jerusalem, and all Judaea, and all the region round about Jordan,
Matthew 3:6 και εβαπτιζοντο εν τω ιορδανη υπ αυτου εξομολογουμενοι τας αμαρτιας αυτων
Matthew 3:6 And were baptized of him in Jordan, confessing their sins.
Matthew 3:7 ιδων δε πολλους των φαρισαιων και σαδδουκαιων ερχομενους επι το βαπτισμα αυτου ειπεν αυτοις γεννηματα εχιδνων τις υπεδειξεν υμιν φυγειν απο της μελλουσης οργης
Matthew 3:7 But when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees come to his baptism, he said unto them, O generation of vipers, who hath warned you to flee from the wrath to come?
Matthew 3:8 ποιησατε ουν καρπους αξιους της μετανοιας
Matthew 3:8 Bring forth therefore fruits meet for repentance:
Matthew 3:9 και μη δοξητε λεγειν εν εαυτοις πατερα εχομεν τον αβρααμ λεγω γαρ υμιν οτι δυναται ο θεος εκ των λιθων τουτων εγειραι τεκνα τω αβρααμ
Matthew 3:9 And think not to say within yourselves, We have Abraham to our father: for I say unto you, that God is able of these stones to raise up children unto Abraham.
Matthew 3:10 ηδη δε και η αξινη προς την ριζαν των δενδρων κειται παν ουν δενδρον μη ποιουν καρπον καλον εκκοπτεται και εις πυρ βαλλεται
Matthew 3:10 And now also the axe is laid unto the root of the trees: therefore every tree which bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down, and cast into the fire.
Matthew 3:11 εγω μεν βαπτιζω υμας εν υδατι εις μετανοιαν ο δε οπισω μου ερχομενος ισχυροτερος μου εστιν ου ουκ ειμι ικανος τα υποδηματα βαστασαι αυτος υμας βαπτισει εν πνευματι αγιω και πυρι
Matthew 3:11 I indeed baptize you with water unto repentance: but he that cometh after me is mightier than I, whose shoes I am not worthy to bear: he shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost, and with fire:
Matthew 3:12 ου το πτυον εν τη χειρι αυτου και διακαθαριει την αλωνα αυτου και συναξει τον σιτον αυτου εις την αποθηκην το δε αχυρον κατακαυσει πυρι ασβεστω
Matthew 3:12 Whose fan is in his hand, and he will throughly purge his floor, and gather his wheat into the garner; but he will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire.
Matthew 3:13 τοτε παραγινεται ο ιησους απο της γαλιλαιας επι τον ιορδανην προς τον ιωαννην του βαπτισθηναι υπ αυτου
Matthew 3:13 Then cometh Jesus from Galilee to Jordan unto John, to be baptized of him.
Matthew 3:14 ο δε ιωαννης διεκωλυεν αυτον λεγων εγω χρειαν εχω υπο σου βαπτισθηναι και συ ερχη προς με
Matthew 3:14 But John forbad him, saying, I have need to be baptized of thee, and comest thou to me?
Matthew 3:15 αποκριθεις δε ο ιησους ειπεν προς αυτον αφες αρτι ουτως γαρ πρεπον εστιν ημιν πληρωσαι πασαν δικαιοσυνην τοτε αφιησιν αυτον
Matthew 3:15 And Jesus answering said unto him, Suffer it to be so now: for thus it becometh us to fulfil all righteousness. Then he suffered him.
Matthew 3:16 και βαπτισθεις ο ιησους ανεβη ευθυς απο του υδατος και ιδου ανεωχθησαν αυτω οι ουρανοι και ειδεν το πνευμα του θεου καταβαινον ωσει περιστεραν και ερχομενον επ αυτον
Matthew 3:16 And Jesus, when he was baptized, went up straightway out of the water: and, lo, the heavens were opened unto him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove, and lighting upon him:
Matthew 3:17 και ιδου φωνη εκ των ουρανων λεγουσα ουτος εστιν ο υιος μου ο αγαπητος εν ω ευδοκησα
Matthew 3:17 And lo a voice from heaven, saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.
Matthew 4:1 τοτε ο ιησους ανηχθη εις την ερημον υπο του πνευματος πειρασθηναι υπο του διαβολου
Matthew 4:1 Then was Jesus led up of the spirit into the wilderness to be tempted of the devil.
Matthew 4:2 και νηστευσας ημερας τεσσαρακοντα και νυκτας τεσσαρακοντα υστερον επεινασεν
Matthew 4:2 And when he had fasted forty days and forty nights, he was afterward an hungred.
Matthew 4:3 και προσελθων αυτω ο πειραζων ειπεν ει υιος ει του θεου ειπε ινα οι λιθοι ουτοι αρτοι γενωνται
Matthew 4:3 And when the tempter came to him, he said, If thou be the Son of God, command that these stones be made bread.
Matthew 4:4 ο δε αποκριθεις ειπεν γεγραπται ουκ επ αρτω μονω ζησεται ανθρωπος αλλ επι παντι ρηματι εκπορευομενω δια στοματος θεου
Matthew 4:4 But he answered and said, It is written, Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God.
Matthew 4:5 τοτε παραλαμβανει αυτον ο διαβολος εις την αγιαν πολιν και ιστησιν αυτον επι το πτερυγιον του ιερου
Matthew 4:5 Then the devil taketh him up into the holy city, and setteth him on a pinnacle of the temple,
Matthew 4:6 και λεγει αυτω ει υιος ει του θεου βαλε σεαυτον κατω γεγραπται γαρ οτι τοις αγγελοις αυτου εντελειται περι σου και επι χειρων αρουσιν σε μηποτε προσκοψης προς λιθον τον ποδα σου
Matthew 4:6 And saith unto him, If thou be the Son of God, cast thyself down: for it is written, He shall give his angels charge concerning thee: and in their hands they shall bear thee up, lest at any time thou dash thy foot against a stone.
Matthew 4:7 εφη αυτω ο ιησους παλιν γεγραπται ουκ εκπειρασεις κυριον τον θεον σου
Matthew 4:7 Jesus said unto him, It is written again, Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God.
Matthew 4:8 παλιν παραλαμβανει αυτον ο διαβολος εις ορος υψηλον λιαν και δεικνυσιν αυτω πασας τας βασιλειας του κοσμου και την δοξαν αυτων
Matthew 4:8 Again, the devil taketh him up into an exceeding high mountain, and sheweth him all the kingdoms of the world, and the glory of them;
Matthew 4:9 και λεγει αυτω ταυτα παντα σοι δωσω εαν πεσων προσκυνησης μοι
Matthew 4:9 And saith unto him, All these things will I give thee, if thou wilt fall down and worship me.
Matthew 4:10 τοτε λεγει αυτω ο ιησους υπαγε σατανα γεγραπται γαρ κυριον τον θεον σου προσκυνησεις και αυτω μονω λατρευσεις
Matthew 4:10 Then saith Jesus unto him, Get thee hence, Satan: for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve.
Matthew 4:11 τοτε αφιησιν αυτον ο διαβολος και ιδου αγγελοι προσηλθον και διηκονουν αυτω
Matthew 4:11 Then the devil leaveth him, and, behold, angels came and ministered unto him.
Matthew 4:12 ακουσας δε ο ιησους οτι ιωαννης παρεδοθη ανεχωρησεν εις την γαλιλαιαν
Matthew 4:12 Now when Jesus had heard that John was cast into prison, he departed into Galilee;
Matthew 4:13 και καταλιπων την ναζαρετ ελθων κατωκησεν εις καπερναουμ την παραθαλασσιαν εν οριοις ζαβουλων και νεφθαλειμ
Matthew 4:13 And leaving Nazareth, he came and dwelt in Capernaum, which is upon the sea coast, in the borders of Zabulon and Nephthalim:
Matthew 4:14 ινα πληρωθη το ρηθεν δια ησαιου του προφητου λεγοντος
Matthew 4:14 That it might be fulfilled which was spoken by Esaias the prophet, saying,
Matthew 4:15 γη ζαβουλων και γη νεφθαλειμ οδον θαλασσης περαν του ιορδανου γαλιλαια των εθνων
Matthew 4:15 The land of Zabulon, and the land of Nephthalim, by the way of the sea, beyond Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles;
Matthew 4:16 ο λαος ο καθημενος εν σκοτει ειδε φως μεγα και τοις καθημενοις εν χωρα και σκια θανατου φως ανετειλεν αυτοις
Matthew 4:16 The people which sat in darkness saw great light; and to them which sat in the region and shadow of death light is sprung up.
Matthew 4:17 απο τοτε ηρξατο ο ιησους κηρυσσειν και λεγειν μετανοειτε ηγγικεν γαρ η βασιλεια των ουρανων
Matthew 4:17 From that time Jesus began to preach, and to say, Repent: for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.
Matthew 4:18 περιπατων δε ο ιησους παρα την θαλασσαν της γαλιλαιας ειδεν δυο αδελφους σιμωνα τον λεγομενον πετρον και ανδρεαν τον αδελφον αυτου βαλλοντας αμφιβληστρον εις την θαλασσαν ησαν γαρ αλιεις
Matthew 4:18 And Jesus, walking by the sea of Galilee, saw two brethren, Simon called Peter, and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea: for they were fishers.
Matthew 4:19 και λεγει αυτοις δευτε οπισω μου και ποιησω υμας αλιεις ανθρωπων
Matthew 4:19 And he saith unto them, Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men.
Matthew 4:20 οι δε ευθεως αφεντες τα δικτυα ηκολουθησαν αυτω
Matthew 4:20 And they straightway left their nets, and followed him.
Matthew 4:21 και προβας εκειθεν ειδεν αλλους δυο αδελφους ιακωβον τον του ζεβεδαιου και ιωαννην τον αδελφον αυτου εν τω πλοιω μετα ζεβεδαιου του πατρος αυτων καταρτιζοντας τα δικτυα αυτων και εκαλεσεν αυτους
Matthew 4:21 And going on from thence, he saw other two brethren, James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, in a ship with Zebedee their father, mending their nets; and he called them.
Matthew 4:22 οι δε ευθεως αφεντες το πλοιον και τον πατερα αυτων ηκολουθησαν αυτω
Matthew 4:22 And they immediately left the ship and their father, and followed him.
Matthew 4:23 και περιηγεν ολην την γαλιλαιαν ο ιησους διδασκων εν ταις συναγωγαις αυτων και κηρυσσων το ευαγγελιον της βασιλειας και θεραπευων πασαν νοσον και πασαν μαλακιαν εν τω λαω
Matthew 4:23 And Jesus went about all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, and preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing all manner of sickness and all manner of disease among the people.
Matthew 4:24 και απηλθεν η ακοη αυτου εις ολην την συριαν και προσηνεγκαν αυτω παντας τους κακως εχοντας ποικιλαις νοσοις και βασανοις συνεχομενους και δαιμονιζομενους και σεληνιαζομενους και παραλυτικους και εθεραπευσεν αυτους
Matthew 4:24 And his fame went throughout all Syria: and they brought unto him all sick people that were taken with divers diseases and torments, and those which were possessed with devils, and those which were lunatick, and those that had the palsy; and he healed them.
Matthew 4:25 και ηκολουθησαν αυτω οχλοι πολλοι απο της γαλιλαιας και δεκαπολεως και ιεροσολυμων και ιουδαιας και περαν του ιορδανου
Matthew 4:25 And there followed him great multitudes of people from Galilee, and from Decapolis, and from Jerusalem, and from Judaea, and from beyond Jordan.
Matthew 5:1 ιδων δε τους οχλους ανεβη εις το ορος και καθισαντος αυτου προσηλθον αυτω οι μαθηται αυτου
Matthew 5:1 And seeing the multitudes, he went up into a mountain: and when he was set, his disciples came unto him:
Matthew 5:2 και ανοιξας το στομα αυτου εδιδασκεν αυτους λεγων
Matthew 5:2 And he opened his mouth, and taught them, saying,
Matthew 5:3 μακαριοι οι πτωχοι τω πνευματι οτι αυτων εστιν η βασιλεια των ουρανων
Matthew 5:3 Blessed are the poor in spirit: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.
Matthew 5:4 μακαριοι οι πενθουντες οτι αυτοι παρακληθησονται
Matthew 5:4 Blessed are they that mourn: for they shall be comforted.
Matthew 5:5 μακαριοι οι πραεις οτι αυτοι κληρονομησουσιν την γην
Matthew 5:5 Blessed are the meek: for they shall inherit the earth.
Matthew 5:6 μακαριοι οι πεινωντες και διψωντες την δικαιοσυνην οτι αυτοι χορτασθησονται
Matthew 5:6 Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness: for they shall be filled.
Matthew 5:7 μακαριοι οι ελεημονες οτι αυτοι ελεηθησονται
Matthew 5:7 Blessed are the merciful: for they shall obtain mercy.
Matthew 5:8 μακαριοι οι καθαροι τη καρδια οτι αυτοι τον θεον οψονται
Matthew 5:8 Blessed are the pure in heart: for they shall see God.
Matthew 5:9 μακαριοι οι ειρηνοποιοι οτι αυτοι υιοι θεου κληθησονται
Matthew 5:9 Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be called the children of God.
Matthew 5:10 μακαριοι οι δεδιωγμενοι ενεκεν δικαιοσυνης οτι αυτων εστιν η βασιλεια των ουρανων
Matthew 5:10 Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.
Matthew 5:11 μακαριοι εστε οταν ονειδισωσιν υμας και διωξωσιν και ειπωσιν παν πονηρον ρημα καθ υμων ψευδομενοι ενεκεν εμου
Matthew 5:11 Blessed are ye, when men shall revile you, and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely, for my sake.
Matthew 5:12 χαιρετε και αγαλλιασθε οτι ο μισθος υμων πολυς εν τοις ουρανοις ουτως γαρ εδιωξαν τους προφητας τους προ υμων
Matthew 5:12 Rejoice, and be exceeding glad: for great is your reward in heaven: for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you.
Matthew 5:13 υμεις εστε το αλας της γης εαν δε το αλας μωρανθη εν τινι αλισθησεται εις ουδεν ισχυει ετι ει μη βληθηναι εξω και καταπατεισθαι υπο των ανθρωπων
Matthew 5:13 Ye are the salt of the earth: but if the salt have lost his savour, wherewith shall it be salted? it is thenceforth good for nothing, but to be cast out, and to be trodden under foot of men.
Matthew 5:14 υμεις εστε το φως του κοσμου ου δυναται πολις κρυβηναι επανω ορους κειμενη
Matthew 5:14 Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on an hill cannot be hid.
Matthew 5:15 ουδε καιουσιν λυχνον και τιθεασιν αυτον υπο τον μοδιον αλλ επι την λυχνιαν και λαμπει πασιν τοις εν τη οικια
Matthew 5:15 Neither do men light a candle, and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the house.
Matthew 5:16 ουτως λαμψατω το φως υμων εμπροσθεν των ανθρωπων οπως ιδωσιν υμων τα καλα εργα και δοξασωσιν τον πατερα υμων τον εν τοις ουρανοις
Matthew 5:16 Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven.
Matthew 5:17 μη νομισητε οτι ηλθον καταλυσαι τον νομον η τους προφητας ουκ ηλθον καταλυσαι αλλα πληρωσαι
Matthew 5:17 Think not that I am come to destroy the law, or the prophets: I am not come to destroy, but to fulfil.
Matthew 5:18 αμην γαρ λεγω υμιν εως αν παρελθη ο ουρανος και η γη ιωτα εν η μια κεραια ου μη παρελθη απο του νομου εως αν παντα γενηται
Matthew 5:18 For verily I say unto you, Till heaven and earth pass, one jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass from the law, till all be fulfilled.
Matthew 5:19 ος εαν ουν λυση μιαν των εντολων τουτων των ελαχιστων και διδαξη ουτως τους ανθρωπους ελαχιστος κληθησεται εν τη βασιλεια των ουρανων ος δ αν ποιηση και διδαξη ουτος μεγας κληθησεται εν τη βασιλεια των ουρανων
Matthew 5:19 Whosoever therefore shall break one of these least commandments, and shall teach men so, he shall be called the least in the kingdom of heaven: but whosoever shall do and teach them, the same shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven.
Matthew 5:20 λεγω γαρ υμιν οτι εαν μη περισσευση η δικαιοσυνη υμων πλειον των γραμματεων και φαρισαιων ου μη εισελθητε εις την βασιλειαν των ουρανων
Matthew 5:20 For I say unto you, That except your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, ye shall in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven.
Matthew 5:21 ηκουσατε οτι ερρεθη τοις αρχαιοις ου φονευσεις ος δ αν φονευση ενοχος εσται τη κρισει
Matthew 5:21 Ye have heard that it was said of them of old time, Thou shalt not kill; and whosoever shall kill shall be in danger of the judgment:
Matthew 5:22 εγω δε λεγω υμιν οτι πας ο οργιζομενος τω αδελφω αυτου εικη ενοχος εσται τη κρισει ος δ αν ειπη τω αδελφω αυτου ρακα ενοχος εσται τω συνεδριω ος δ αν ειπη μωρε ενοχος εσται εις την γεενναν του πυρος
Matthew 5:22 But I say unto you, That whosoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment: and whosoever shall say to his brother, Raca, shall be in danger of the council: but whosoever shall say, Thou fool, shall be in danger of hell fire.
Matthew 5:23 εαν ουν προσφερης το δωρον σου επι το θυσιαστηριον κακει μνησθης οτι ο αδελφος σου εχει τι κατα σου
Matthew 5:23 Therefore if thou bring thy gift to the altar, and there rememberest that thy brother hath ought against thee;
Matthew 5:24 αφες εκει το δωρον σου εμπροσθεν του θυσιαστηριου και υπαγε πρωτον διαλλαγηθι τω αδελφω σου και τοτε ελθων προσφερε το δωρον σου
Matthew 5:24 Leave there thy gift before the altar, and go thy way; first be reconciled to thy brother, and then come and offer thy gift.
Matthew 5:25 ισθι ευνοων τω αντιδικω σου ταχυ εως οτου ει εν τη οδω μετ αυτου μηποτε σε παραδω ο αντιδικος τω κριτη και ο κριτης σε παραδω τω υπηρετη και εις φυλακην βληθηση
Matthew 5:25 Agree with thine adversary quickly, whiles thou art in the way with him; lest at any time the adversary deliver thee to the judge, and the judge deliver thee to the officer, and thou be cast into prison.
Matthew 5:26 αμην λεγω σοι ου μη εξελθης εκειθεν εως αν αποδως τον εσχατον κοδραντην
Matthew 5:26 Verily I say unto thee, Thou shalt by no means come out thence, till thou hast paid the uttermost farthing.
Matthew 5:27 ηκουσατε οτι ερρεθη τοις αρχαιοις ου μοιχευσεις
Matthew 5:27 Ye have heard that it was said by them of old time, Thou shalt not commit adultery:
Matthew 5:28 εγω δε λεγω υμιν οτι πας ο βλεπων γυναικα προς το επιθυμησαι αυτης ηδη εμοιχευσεν αυτην εν τη καρδια αυτου
Matthew 5:28 But I say unto you, That whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her hath committed adultery with her already in his heart.
Matthew 5:29 ει δε ο οφθαλμος σου ο δεξιος σκανδαλιζει σε εξελε αυτον και βαλε απο σου συμφερει γαρ σοι ινα αποληται εν των μελων σου και μη ολον το σωμα σου βληθη εις γεενναν
Matthew 5:29 And if thy right eye offend thee, pluck it out, and cast it from thee: for it is profitable for thee that one of thy members should perish, and not that thy whole body should be cast into hell.
Matthew 5:30 και ει η δεξια σου χειρ σκανδαλιζει σε εκκοψον αυτην και βαλε απο σου συμφερει γαρ σοι ινα αποληται εν των μελων σου και μη ολον το σωμα σου βληθη εις γεενναν
Matthew 5:30 And if thy right hand offend thee, cut it off, and cast it from thee: for it is profitable for thee that one of thy members should perish, and not that thy whole body should be cast into hell.
Matthew 5:31 ερρεθη δε οτι ος αν απολυση την γυναικα αυτου δοτω αυτη αποστασιον
Matthew 5:31 It hath been said, Whosoever shall put away his wife, let him give her a writing of divorcement:
Matthew 5:32 εγω δε λεγω υμιν οτι ος αν απολυση την γυναικα αυτου παρεκτος λογου πορνειας ποιει αυτην μοιχασθαι και ος εαν απολελυμενην γαμηση μοιχαται
Matthew 5:32 But I say unto you, That whosoever shall put away his wife, saving for the cause of fornication, causeth her to commit adultery: and whosoever shall marry her that is divorced committeth adultery.
Matthew 5:33 παλιν ηκουσατε οτι ερρεθη τοις αρχαιοις ουκ επιορκησεις αποδωσεις δε τω κυριω τους ορκους σου
Matthew 5:33 Again, ye have heard that it hath been said by them of old time, Thou shalt not forswear thyself, but shalt perform unto the Lord thine oaths:
Matthew 5:34 εγω δε λεγω υμιν μη ομοσαι ολως μητε εν τω ουρανω οτι θρονος εστιν του θεου
Matthew 5:34 But I say unto you, Swear not at all; neither by heaven; for it is God's throne:
Matthew 5:35 μητε εν τη γη οτι υποποδιον εστιν των ποδων αυτου μητε εις ιεροσολυμα οτι πολις εστιν του μεγαλου βασιλεως
Matthew 5:35 Nor by the earth; for it is his footstool: neither by Jerusalem; for it is the city of the great King.
Matthew 5:36 μητε εν τη κεφαλη σου ομοσης οτι ου δυνασαι μιαν τριχα λευκην η μελαιναν ποιησαι
Matthew 5:36 Neither shalt thou swear by thy head, because thou canst not make one hair white or black.
Matthew 5:37 εστω δε ο λογος υμων ναι ναι ου ου το δε περισσον τουτων εκ του πονηρου εστιν
Matthew 5:37 But let your communication be, Yea, yea; Nay, nay: for whatsoever is more than these cometh of evil.
Matthew 5:38 ηκουσατε οτι ερρεθη οφθαλμον αντι οφθαλμου και οδοντα αντι οδοντος
Matthew 5:38 Ye have heard that it hath been said, An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth:
Matthew 5:39 εγω δε λεγω υμιν μη αντιστηναι τω πονηρω αλλ οστις σε ραπισει επι την δεξιαν σου σιαγονα στρεψον αυτω και την αλλην
Matthew 5:39 But I say unto you, That ye resist not evil: but whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the other also.
Matthew 5:40 και τω θελοντι σοι κριθηναι και τον χιτωνα σου λαβειν αφες αυτω και το ιματιον
Matthew 5:40 And if any man will sue thee at the law, and take away thy coat, let him have thy cloak also.
Matthew 5:41 και οστις σε αγγαρευσει μιλιον εν υπαγε μετ αυτου δυο
Matthew 5:41 And whosoever shall compel thee to go a mile, go with him twain.
Matthew 5:42 τω αιτουντι σε διδου και τον θελοντα απο σου δανεισασθαι μη αποστραφης
Matthew 5:42 Give to him that asketh thee, and from him that would borrow of thee turn not thou away.
Matthew 5:43 ηκουσατε οτι ερρεθη αγαπησεις τον πλησιον σου και μισησεις τον εχθρον σου
Matthew 5:43 Ye have heard that it hath been said, Thou shalt love thy neighbour, and hate thine enemy.
Matthew 5:44 εγω δε λεγω υμιν αγαπατε τους εχθρους υμων ευλογειτε τους καταρωμενους υμας καλως ποιειτε τους μισουντας υμας και προσευχεσθε υπερ των επηρεαζοντων υμας και διωκοντων υμας
Matthew 5:44 But I say unto you, Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you;
Matthew 5:45 οπως γενησθε υιοι του πατρος υμων του εν ουρανοις οτι τον ηλιον αυτου ανατελλει επι πονηρους και αγαθους και βρεχει επι δικαιους και αδικους
Matthew 5:45 That ye may be the children of your Father which is in heaven: for he maketh his sun to rise on the evil and on the good, and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust.
Matthew 5:46 εαν γαρ αγαπησητε τους αγαπωντας υμας τινα μισθον εχετε ουχι και οι τελωναι το αυτο ποιουσιν
Matthew 5:46 For if ye love them which love you, what reward have ye? do not even the publicans the same?
Matthew 5:47 και εαν ασπασησθε τους αδελφους υμων μονον τι περισσον ποιειτε ουχι και οι τελωναι ουτως ποιουσιν
Matthew 5:47 And if ye salute your brethren only, what do ye more than others? do not even the publicans so?
Matthew 5:48 εσεσθε ουν υμεις τελειοι ωσπερ ο πατηρ υμων ο εν τοις ουρανοις τελειος εστιν
Matthew 5:48 Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect.
Matthew 6:1 προσεχετε την ελεημοσυνην υμων μη ποιειν εμπροσθεν των ανθρωπων προς το θεαθηναι αυτοις ει δε μηγε μισθον ουκ εχετε παρα τω πατρι υμων τω εν τοις ουρανοις
Matthew 6:1 Take heed that ye do not your alms before men, to be seen of them: otherwise ye have no reward of your Father which is in heaven.
Matthew 6:2 οταν ουν ποιης ελεημοσυνην μη σαλπισης εμπροσθεν σου ωσπερ οι υποκριται ποιουσιν εν ταις συναγωγαις και εν ταις ρυμαις οπως δοξασθωσιν υπο των ανθρωπων αμην λεγω υμιν απεχουσιν τον μισθον αυτων
Matthew 6:2 Therefore when thou doest thine alms, do not sound a trumpet before thee, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may have glory of men. Verily I say unto you, They have their reward.
Matthew 6:3 σου δε ποιουντος ελεημοσυνην μη γνωτω η αριστερα σου τι ποιει η δεξια σου
Matthew 6:3 But when thou doest alms, let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth:
Matthew 6:4 οπως η σου η ελεημοσυνη εν τω κρυπτω και ο πατηρ σου ο βλεπων εν τω κρυπτω αυτος αποδωσει σοι εν τω φανερω
Matthew 6:4 That thine alms may be in secret: and thy Father which seeth in secret himself shall reward thee openly.
Matthew 6:5 και οταν προσευχη ουκ εση ωσπερ οι υποκριται οτι φιλουσιν εν ταις συναγωγαις και εν ταις γωνιαις των πλατειων εστωτες προσευχεσθαι οπως αν φανωσιν τοις ανθρωποις αμην λεγω υμιν οτι απεχουσιν τον μισθον αυτων
Matthew 6:5 And when thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the hypocrites are: for they love to pray standing in the synagogues and in the corners of the streets, that they may be seen of men.  Verily I say unto you, They have their reward.
Matthew 6:6 συ δε οταν προσευχη εισελθε εις το ταμιειον σου και κλεισας την θυραν σου προσευξαι τω πατρι σου τω εν τω κρυπτω και ο πατηρ σου ο βλεπων εν τω κρυπτω αποδωσει σοι εν τω φανερω
Matthew 6:6 But thou, when thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and when thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy Father which is in secret; and thy Father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly.
Matthew 6:7 προσευχομενοι δε μη βαττολογησητε ωσπερ οι εθνικοι δοκουσιν γαρ οτι εν τη πολυλογια αυτων εισακουσθησονται
Matthew 6:7 But when ye pray, use not vain repetitions, as the heathen do: for they think that they shall be heard for their much speaking.
Matthew 6:8 μη ουν ομοιωθητε αυτοις οιδεν γαρ ο πατηρ υμων ων χρειαν εχετε προ του υμας αιτησαι αυτον
Matthew 6:8 Be not ye therefore like unto them: for your Father knoweth what things ye have need of, before ye ask him.
Matthew 6:9 ουτως ουν προσευχεσθε υμεις πατερ ημων ο εν τοις ουρανοις αγιασθητω το ονομα σου
Matthew 6:9 After this manner therefore pray ye: Our Father which art in heaven, Hallowed be thy name.
Matthew 6:10 ελθετω η βασιλεια σου γενηθητω το θελημα σου ως εν ουρανω και επι της γης
Matthew 6:10 Thy kingdom come, Thy will be done in earth, as it is in heaven.
Matthew 6:11 τον αρτον ημων τον επιουσιον δος ημιν σημερον
Matthew 6:11 Give us this day our daily bread.
Matthew 6:12 και αφες ημιν τα οφειληματα ημων ως και ημεις αφιεμεν τοις οφειλεταις ημων
Matthew 6:12 And forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors.
Matthew 6:13 και μη εισενεγκης ημας εις πειρασμον αλλα ρυσαι ημας απο του πονηρου οτι σου εστιν η βασιλεια και η δυναμις και η δοξα εις τους αιωνας αμην
Matthew 6:13 And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil: For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, for ever.  Amen.
Matthew 6:14 εαν γαρ αφητε τοις ανθρωποις τα παραπτωματα αυτων αφησει και υμιν ο πατηρ υμων ο ουρανιος
Matthew 6:14 For if ye forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you:
Matthew 6:15 εαν δε μη αφητε τοις ανθρωποις τα παραπτωματα αυτων ουδε ο πατηρ υμων αφησει τα παραπτωματα υμων
Matthew 6:15 But if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses.
Matthew 6:16 οταν δε νηστευητε μη γινεσθε ωσπερ οι υποκριται σκυθρωποι αφανιζουσιν γαρ τα προσωπα αυτων οπως φανωσιν τοις ανθρωποις νηστευοντες αμην λεγω υμιν οτι απεχουσιν τον μισθον αυτων
Matthew 6:16 Moreover when ye fast, be not, as the hypocrites, of a sad countenance: for they disfigure their faces, that they may appear unto men to fast. Verily I say unto you, They have their reward.
Matthew 6:17 συ δε νηστευων αλειψαι σου την κεφαλην και το προσωπον σου νιψαι
Matthew 6:17 But thou, when thou fastest, anoint thine head, and wash thy face;
Matthew 6:18 οπως μη φανης τοις ανθρωποις νηστευων αλλα τω πατρι σου τω εν τω κρυπτω και ο πατηρ σου ο βλεπων εν τω κρυπτω αποδωσει σοι εν τω φανερω
Matthew 6:18 That thou appear not unto men to fast, but unto thy Father which is in secret: and thy Father, which seeth in secret, shall reward thee openly.
Matthew 6:19 μη θησαυριζετε υμιν θησαυρους επι της γης οπου σης και βρωσις αφανιζει και οπου κλεπται διορυσσουσιν και κλεπτουσιν
Matthew 6:19 Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal:
Matthew 6:20 θησαυριζετε δε υμιν θησαυρους εν ουρανω οπου ουτε σης ουτε βρωσις αφανιζει και οπου κλεπται ου διορυσσουσιν ουδε κλεπτουσιν
Matthew 6:20 But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through nor steal:
Matthew 6:21 οπου γαρ εστιν ο θησαυρος υμων εκει εσται και η καρδια υμων
Matthew 6:21 For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.
Matthew 6:22 ο λυχνος του σωματος εστιν ο οφθαλμος εαν ουν ο οφθαλμος σου απλους η ολον το σωμα σου φωτεινον εσται
Matthew 6:22 The light of the body is the eye: if therefore thine eye be single, thy whole body shall be full of light.
Matthew 6:23 εαν δε ο οφθαλμος σου πονηρος η ολον το σωμα σου σκοτεινον εσται ει ουν το φως το εν σοι σκοτος εστιν το σκοτος ποσον
Matthew 6:23 But if thine eye be evil, thy whole body shall be full of darkness. If therefore the light that is in thee be darkness, how great is that darkness!
Matthew 6:24 ουδεις δυναται δυσι κυριοις δουλευειν η γαρ τον ενα μισησει και τον ετερον αγαπησει η ενος ανθεξεται και του ετερου καταφρονησει ου δυνασθε θεω δουλευειν και μαμμωνα
Matthew 6:24 No man can serve two masters: for either he will hate the one, and love the other; or else he will hold to the one, and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and mammon.
Matthew 6:25 δια τουτο λεγω υμιν μη μεριμνατε τη ψυχη υμων τι φαγητε και τι πιητε μηδε τω σωματι υμων τι ενδυσησθε ουχι η ψυχη πλειον εστιν της τροφης και το σωμα του ενδυματος
Matthew 6:25 Therefore I say unto you, Take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink; nor yet for your body, what ye shall put on. Is not the life more than meat, and the body than raiment?
Matthew 6:26 εμβλεψατε εις τα πετεινα του ουρανου οτι ου σπειρουσιν ουδε θεριζουσιν ουδε συναγουσιν εις αποθηκας και ο πατηρ υμων ο ουρανιος τρεφει αυτα ουχ υμεις μαλλον διαφερετε αυτων
Matthew 6:26 Behold the fowls of the air: for they sow not, neither do they reap, nor gather into barns; yet your heavenly Father feedeth them. Are ye not much better than they?
Matthew 6:27 τις δε εξ υμων μεριμνων δυναται προσθειναι επι την ηλικιαν αυτου πηχυν ενα
Matthew 6:27 Which of you by taking thought can add one cubit unto his stature?
Matthew 6:28 και περι ενδυματος τι μεριμνατε καταμαθετε τα κρινα του αγρου πως αυξανει ου κοπια ουδε νηθει
Matthew 6:28 And why take ye thought for raiment? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow; they toil not, neither do they spin:
Matthew 6:29 λεγω δε υμιν οτι ουδε σολομων εν παση τη δοξη αυτου περιεβαλετο ως εν τουτων
Matthew 6:29 And yet I say unto you, That even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these.
Matthew 6:30 ει δε τον χορτον του αγρου σημερον οντα και αυριον εις κλιβανον βαλλομενον ο θεος ουτως αμφιεννυσιν ου πολλω μαλλον υμας ολιγοπιστοι
Matthew 6:30 Wherefore, if God so clothe the grass of the field, which to day is, and to morrow is cast into the oven, shall he not much more clothe you, O ye of little faith?
Matthew 6:31 μη ουν μεριμνησητε λεγοντες τι φαγωμεν η τι πιωμεν η τι περιβαλωμεθα
Matthew 6:31 Therefore take no thought, saying, What shall we eat? or, What shall we drink? or, Wherewithal shall we be clothed?
Matthew 6:32 παντα γαρ ταυτα τα εθνη επιζητει οιδεν γαρ ο πατηρ υμων ο ουρανιος οτι χρηζετε τουτων απαντων
Matthew 6:32 (For after all these things do the Gentiles seek:) for your heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of all these things.
Matthew 6:33 ζητειτε δε πρωτον την βασιλειαν του θεου και την δικαιοσυνην αυτου και ταυτα παντα προστεθησεται υμιν
Matthew 6:33 But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you.
Matthew 6:34 μη ουν μεριμνησητε εις την αυριον η γαρ αυριον μεριμνησει τα εαυτης αρκετον τη ημερα η κακια αυτης
Matthew 6:34 Take therefore no thought for the morrow: for the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself. Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof.
Matthew 7:1 μη κρινετε ινα μη κριθητε
Matthew 7:1 Judge not, that ye be not judged.
Matthew 7:2 εν ω γαρ κριματι κρινετε κριθησεσθε και εν ω μετρω μετρειτε αντιμετρηθησεται υμιν
Matthew 7:2 For with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged: and with what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you again.
Matthew 7:3 τι δε βλεπεις το καρφος το εν τω οφθαλμω του αδελφου σου την δε εν τω σω οφθαλμω δοκον ου κατανοεις
Matthew 7:3 And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye, but considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye?
Matthew 7:4 η πως ερεις τω αδελφω σου αφες εκβαλω το καρφος απο του οφθαλμου σου και ιδου η δοκος εν τω οφθαλμω σου
Matthew 7:4 Or how wilt thou say to thy brother, Let me pull out the mote out of thine eye; and, behold, a beam is in thine own eye?
Matthew 7:5 υποκριτα εκβαλε πρωτον την δοκον εκ του οφθαλμου σου και τοτε διαβλεψεις εκβαλειν το καρφος εκ του οφθαλμου του αδελφου σου
Matthew 7:5 Thou hypocrite, first cast out the beam out of thine own eye; and then shalt thou see clearly to cast out the mote out of thy brother's eye.
Matthew 7:6 μη δωτε το αγιον τοις κυσιν μηδε βαλητε τους μαργαριτας υμων εμπροσθεν των χοιρων μηποτε καταπατησωσιν αυτους εν τοις ποσιν αυτων και στραφεντες ρηξωσιν υμας
Matthew 7:6 Give not that which is holy unto the dogs, neither cast ye your pearls before swine, lest they trample them under their feet, and turn again and rend you.
Matthew 7:7 αιτειτε και δοθησεται υμιν ζητειτε και ευρησετε κρουετε και ανοιγησεται υμιν
Matthew 7:7 Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you:
Matthew 7:8 πας γαρ ο αιτων λαμβανει και ο ζητων ευρισκει και τω κρουοντι ανοιγησεται
Matthew 7:8 For every one that asketh receiveth; and he that seeketh findeth; and to him that knocketh it shall be opened.
Matthew 7:9 η τις εστιν εξ υμων ανθρωπος ον εαν αιτηση ο υιος αυτου αρτον μη λιθον επιδωσει αυτω
Matthew 7:9 Or what man is there of you, whom if his son ask bread, will he give him a stone?
Matthew 7:10 και εαν ιχθυν αιτηση μη οφιν επιδωσει αυτω
Matthew 7:10 Or if he ask a fish, will he give him a serpent?
Matthew 7:11 ει ουν υμεις πονηροι οντες οιδατε δοματα αγαθα διδοναι τοις τεκνοις υμων ποσω μαλλον ο πατηρ υμων ο εν τοις ουρανοις δωσει αγαθα τοις αιτουσιν αυτον
Matthew 7:11 If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your Father which is in heaven give good things to them that ask him?
Matthew 7:12 παντα ουν οσα αν θελητε ινα ποιωσιν υμιν οι ανθρωποι ουτως και υμεις ποιειτε αυτοις ουτος γαρ εστιν ο νομος και οι προφηται
Matthew 7:12 Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them: for this is the law and the prophets.
Matthew 7:13 εισελθετε δια της στενης πυλης οτι πλατεια η πυλη και ευρυχωρος η οδος η απαγουσα εις την απωλειαν και πολλοι εισιν οι εισερχομενοι δι αυτης
Matthew 7:13 Enter ye in at the strait gate: for wide is the gate, and broad is the way, that leadeth to destruction, and many there be which go in thereat:
Matthew 7:14 οτι στενη η πυλη και τεθλιμμενη η οδος η απαγουσα εις την ζωην και ολιγοι εισιν οι ευρισκοντες αυτην
Matthew 7:14 Because strait is the gate, and narrow is the way, which leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it.
Matthew 7:15 προσεχετε δε απο των ψευδοπροφητων οιτινες ερχονται προς υμας εν ενδυμασιν προβατων εσωθεν δε εισιν λυκοι αρπαγες
Matthew 7:15 Beware of false prophets, which come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravening wolves.
Matthew 7:16 απο των καρπων αυτων επιγνωσεσθε αυτους μητι συλλεγουσιν απο ακανθων σταφυλην η απο τριβολων συκα
Matthew 7:16 Ye shall know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles?
Matthew 7:17 ουτως παν δενδρον αγαθον καρπους καλους ποιει το δε σαπρον δενδρον καρπους πονηρους ποιει
Matthew 7:17 Even so every good tree bringeth forth good fruit; but a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit.
Matthew 7:18 ου δυναται δενδρον αγαθον καρπους πονηρους ποιειν ουδε δενδρον σαπρον καρπους καλους ποιειν
Matthew 7:18 A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit.
Matthew 7:19 παν δενδρον μη ποιουν καρπον καλον εκκοπτεται και εις πυρ βαλλεται
Matthew 7:19 Every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down, and cast into the fire.
Matthew 7:20 αραγε απο των καρπων αυτων επιγνωσεσθε αυτους
Matthew 7:20 Wherefore by their fruits ye shall know them.
Matthew 7:21 ου πας ο λεγων μοι κυριε κυριε εισελευσεται εις την βασιλειαν των ουρανων αλλ ο ποιων το θελημα του πατρος μου του εν ουρανοις
Matthew 7:21 Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven.
Matthew 7:22 πολλοι ερουσιν μοι εν εκεινη τη ημερα κυριε κυριε ου τω σω ονοματι προεφητευσαμεν και τω σω ονοματι δαιμονια εξεβαλομεν και τω σω ονοματι δυναμεις πολλας εποιησαμεν
Matthew 7:22 Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? and in thy name have cast out devils?  and in thy name done many wonderful works?
Matthew 7:23 και τοτε ομολογησω αυτοις οτι ουδεποτε εγνων υμας αποχωρειτε απ εμου οι εργαζομενοι την ανομιαν
Matthew 7:23 And then will I profess unto them, I never knew you: depart from me, ye that work iniquity.
Matthew 7:24 πας ουν οστις ακουει μου τους λογους τουτους και ποιει αυτους ομοιωσω αυτον ανδρι φρονιμω οστις ωκοδομησεν την οικιαν αυτου επι την πετραν
Matthew 7:24 Therefore whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock:
Matthew 7:25 και κατεβη η βροχη και ηλθον οι ποταμοι και επνευσαν οι ανεμοι και προσεπεσον τη οικια εκεινη και ουκ επεσεν τεθεμελιωτο γαρ επι την πετραν
Matthew 7:25 And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell not: for it was founded upon a rock.
Matthew 7:26 και πας ο ακουων μου τους λογους τουτους και μη ποιων αυτους ομοιωθησεται ανδρι μωρω οστις ωκοδομησεν την οικιαν αυτου επι την αμμον
Matthew 7:26 And every one that heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them not, shall be likened unto a foolish man, which built his house upon the sand:
Matthew 7:27 και κατεβη η βροχη και ηλθον οι ποταμοι και επνευσαν οι ανεμοι και προσεκοψαν τη οικια εκεινη και επεσεν και ην η πτωσις αυτης μεγαλη
Matthew 7:27 And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell: and great was the fall of it.
Matthew 7:28 και εγενετο οτε συνετελεσεν ο ιησους τους λογους τουτους εξεπλησσοντο οι οχλοι επι τη διδαχη αυτου
Matthew 7:28 And it came to pass, when Jesus had ended these sayings, the people were astonished at his doctrine:
Matthew 7:29 ην γαρ διδασκων αυτους ως εξουσιαν εχων και ουχ ως οι γραμματεις
Matthew 7:29 For he taught them as one having authority, and not as the scribes.
Matthew 8:1 καταβαντι δε αυτω απο του ορους ηκολουθησαν αυτω οχλοι πολλοι
Matthew 8:1 When he was come down from the mountain, great multitudes followed him.
Matthew 8:2 και ιδου λεπρος ελθων προσεκυνει αυτω λεγων κυριε εαν θελης δυνασαι με καθαρισαι
Matthew 8:2 And, behold, there came a leper and worshipped him, saying, Lord, if thou wilt, thou canst make me clean.
Matthew 8:3 και εκτεινας την χειρα ηψατο αυτου ο ιησους λεγων θελω καθαρισθητι και ευθεως εκαθαρισθη αυτου η λεπρα
Matthew 8:3 And Jesus put forth his hand, and touched him, saying, I will; be thou clean. And immediately his leprosy was cleansed.
Matthew 8:4 και λεγει αυτω ο ιησους ορα μηδενι ειπης αλλ υπαγε σεαυτον δειξον τω ιερει και προσενεγκε το δωρον ο προσεταξεν μωσης εις μαρτυριον αυτοις
Matthew 8:4 And Jesus saith unto him, See thou tell no man; but go thy way, shew thyself to the priest, and offer the gift that Moses commanded, for a testimony unto them.
Matthew 8:5 εισελθοντι δε τω ιησου εις καπερναουμ προσηλθεν αυτω εκατονταρχος παρακαλων αυτον
Matthew 8:5 And when Jesus was entered into Capernaum, there came unto him a centurion, beseeching him,
Matthew 8:6 και λεγων κυριε ο παις μου βεβληται εν τη οικια παραλυτικος δεινως βασανιζομενος
Matthew 8:6 And saying, Lord, my servant lieth at home sick of the palsy, grievously tormented.
Matthew 8:7 και λεγει αυτω ο ιησους εγω ελθων θεραπευσω αυτον
Matthew 8:7 And Jesus saith unto him, I will come and heal him.
Matthew 8:8 και αποκριθεις ο εκατονταρχος εφη κυριε ουκ ειμι ικανος ινα μου υπο την στεγην εισελθης αλλα μονον ειπε λογον και ιαθησεται ο παις μου
Matthew 8:8 The centurion answered and said, Lord, I am not worthy that thou shouldest come under my roof: but speak the word only, and my servant shall be healed.
Matthew 8:9 και γαρ εγω ανθρωπος ειμι υπο εξουσιαν εχων υπ εμαυτον στρατιωτας και λεγω τουτω πορευθητι και πορευεται και αλλω ερχου και ερχεται και τω δουλω μου ποιησον τουτο και ποιει
Matthew 8:9 For I am a man under authority, having soldiers under me: and I say to this man, Go, and he goeth; and to another, Come, and he cometh; and to my servant, Do this, and he doeth it.
Matthew 8:10 ακουσας δε ο ιησους εθαυμασεν και ειπεν τοις ακολουθουσιν αμην λεγω υμιν ουδε εν τω ισραηλ τοσαυτην πιστιν ευρον
Matthew 8:10 When Jesus heard it, he marvelled, and said to them that followed, Verily I say unto you, I have not found so great faith, no, not in Israel.
Matthew 8:11 λεγω δε υμιν οτι πολλοι απο ανατολων και δυσμων ηξουσιν και ανακλιθησονται μετα αβρααμ και ισαακ και ιακωβ εν τη βασιλεια των ουρανων
Matthew 8:11 And I say unto you, That many shall come from the east and west, and shall sit down with Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, in the kingdom of heaven.
Matthew 8:12 οι δε υιοι της βασιλειας εκβληθησονται εις το σκοτος το εξωτερον εκει εσται ο κλαυθμος και ο βρυγμος των οδοντων
Matthew 8:12 But the children of the kingdom shall be cast out into outer darkness: there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
Matthew 8:13 και ειπεν ο ιησους τω εκατονταρχω υπαγε και ως επιστευσας γενηθητω σοι και ιαθη ο παις αυτου εν τη ωρα εκεινη
Matthew 8:13 And Jesus said unto the centurion, Go thy way; and as thou hast believed, so be it done unto thee. And his servant was healed in the selfsame hour.
Matthew 8:14 και ελθων ο ιησους εις την οικιαν πετρου ειδεν την πενθεραν αυτου βεβλημενην και πυρεσσουσαν
Matthew 8:14 And when Jesus was come into Peter's house, he saw his wife's mother laid, and sick of a fever.
Matthew 8:15 και ηψατο της χειρος αυτης και αφηκεν αυτην ο πυρετος και ηγερθη και διηκονει αυτοις
Matthew 8:15 And he touched her hand, and the fever left her: and she arose, and ministered unto them.
Matthew 8:16 οψιας δε γενομενης προσηνεγκαν αυτω δαιμονιζομενους πολλους και εξεβαλεν τα πνευματα λογω και παντας τους κακως εχοντας εθεραπευσεν
Matthew 8:16 When the even was come, they brought unto him many that were possessed with devils: and he cast out the spirits with his word, and healed all that were sick:
Matthew 8:17 οπως πληρωθη το ρηθεν δια ησαιου του προφητου λεγοντος αυτος τας ασθενειας ημων ελαβεν και τας νοσους εβαστασεν
Matthew 8:17 That it might be fulfilled which was spoken by Esaias the prophet, saying, Himself took our infirmities, and bare our sicknesses.
Matthew 8:18 ιδων δε ο ιησους πολλους οχλους περι αυτον εκελευσεν απελθειν εις το περαν
Matthew 8:18 Now when Jesus saw great multitudes about him, he gave commandment to depart unto the other side.
Matthew 8:19 και προσελθων εις γραμματευς ειπεν αυτω διδασκαλε ακολουθησω σοι οπου εαν απερχη
Matthew 8:19 And a certain scribe came, and said unto him, Master, I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest.
Matthew 8:20 και λεγει αυτω ο ιησους αι αλωπεκες φωλεους εχουσιν και τα πετεινα του ουρανου κατασκηνωσεις ο δε υιος του ανθρωπου ουκ εχει που την κεφαλην κλινη
Matthew 8:20 And Jesus saith unto him, The foxes have holes, and the birds of the air have nests; but the Son of man hath not where to lay his head.
Matthew 8:21 ετερος δε των μαθητων αυτου ειπεν αυτω κυριε επιτρεψον μοι πρωτον απελθειν και θαψαι τον πατερα μου
Matthew 8:21 And another of his disciples said unto him, Lord, suffer me first to go and bury my father.
Matthew 8:22 ο δε ιησους ειπεν αυτω ακολουθει μοι και αφες τους νεκρους θαψαι τους εαυτων νεκρους
Matthew 8:22 But Jesus said unto him, Follow me; and let the dead bury their dead.
Matthew 8:23 και εμβαντι αυτω εις το πλοιον ηκολουθησαν αυτω οι μαθηται αυτου
Matthew 8:23 And when he was entered into a ship, his disciples followed him.
Matthew 8:24 και ιδου σεισμος μεγας εγενετο εν τη θαλασση ωστε το πλοιον καλυπτεσθαι υπο των κυματων αυτος δε εκαθευδεν
Matthew 8:24 And, behold, there arose a great tempest in the sea, insomuch that the ship was covered with the waves: but he was asleep.
Matthew 8:25 και προσελθοντες οι μαθηται αυτου ηγειραν αυτον λεγοντες κυριε σωσον ημας απολλυμεθα
Matthew 8:25 And his disciples came to him, and awoke him, saying, Lord, save us: we perish.
Matthew 8:26 και λεγει αυτοις τι δειλοι εστε ολιγοπιστοι τοτε εγερθεις επετιμησεν τοις ανεμοις και τη θαλασση και εγενετο γαληνη μεγαλη
Matthew 8:26 And he saith unto them, Why are ye fearful, O ye of little faith? Then he arose, and rebuked the winds and the sea; and there was a great calm.
Matthew 8:27 οι δε ανθρωποι εθαυμασαν λεγοντες ποταπος εστιν ουτος οτι και οι ανεμοι και η θαλασσα υπακουουσιν αυτω
Matthew 8:27 But the men marvelled, saying, What manner of man is this, that even the winds and the sea obey him!
Matthew 8:28 και ελθοντι αυτω εις το περαν εις την χωραν των γεργεσηνων υπηντησαν αυτω δυο δαιμονιζομενοι εκ των μνημειων εξερχομενοι χαλεποι λιαν ωστε μη ισχυειν τινα παρελθειν δια της οδου εκεινης
Matthew 8:28 And when he was come to the other side into the country of the Gergesenes, there met him two possessed with devils, coming out of the tombs, exceeding fierce, so that no man might pass by that way.
Matthew 8:29 και ιδου εκραξαν λεγοντες τι ημιν και σοι ιησου υιε του θεου ηλθες ωδε προ καιρου βασανισαι ημας
Matthew 8:29 And, behold, they cried out, saying, What have we to do with thee, Jesus, thou Son of God? art thou come hither to torment us before the time?
Matthew 8:30 ην δε μακραν απ αυτων αγελη χοιρων πολλων βοσκομενη
Matthew 8:30 And there was a good way off from them an herd of many swine feeding.
Matthew 8:31 οι δε δαιμονες παρεκαλουν αυτον λεγοντες ει εκβαλλεις ημας επιτρεψον ημιν απελθειν εις την αγελην των χοιρων
Matthew 8:31 So the devils besought him, saying, If thou cast us out, suffer us to go away into the herd of swine.
Matthew 8:32 και ειπεν αυτοις υπαγετε οι δε εξελθοντες απηλθον εις την αγελην των χοιρων και ιδου ωρμησεν πασα η αγελη των χοιρων κατα του κρημνου εις την θαλασσαν και απεθανον εν τοις υδασιν
Matthew 8:32 And he said unto them, Go. And when they were come out, they went into the herd of swine: and, behold, the whole herd of swine ran violently down a steep place into the sea, and perished in the waters.
Matthew 8:33 οι δε βοσκοντες εφυγον και απελθοντες εις την πολιν απηγγειλαν παντα και τα των δαιμονιζομενων
Matthew 8:33 And they that kept them fled, and went their ways into the city, and told every thing, and what was befallen to the possessed of the devils.
Matthew 8:34 και ιδου πασα η πολις εξηλθεν εις συναντησιν τω ιησου και ιδοντες αυτον παρεκαλεσαν οπως μεταβη απο των οριων αυτων
Matthew 8:34 And, behold, the whole city came out to meet Jesus: and when they saw him, they besought him that he would depart out of their coasts.
Matthew 9:1 και εμβας εις το πλοιον διεπερασεν και ηλθεν εις την ιδιαν πολιν
Matthew 9:1 And he entered into a ship, and passed over, and came into his own city.
Matthew 9:2 και ιδου προσεφερον αυτω παραλυτικον επι κλινης βεβλημενον και ιδων ο ιησους την πιστιν αυτων ειπεν τω παραλυτικω θαρσει τεκνον αφεωνται σοι αι αμαρτιαι σου
Matthew 9:2 And, behold, they brought to him a man sick of the palsy, lying on a bed: and Jesus seeing their faith said unto the sick of the palsy; Son, be of good cheer; thy sins be forgiven thee.
Matthew 9:3 και ιδου τινες των γραμματεων ειπον εν εαυτοις ουτος βλασφημει
Matthew 9:3 And, behold, certain of the scribes said within themselves, This man blasphemeth.
Matthew 9:4 και ιδων ο ιησους τας ενθυμησεις αυτων ειπεν ινα τι υμεις ενθυμεισθε πονηρα εν ταις καρδιαις υμων
Matthew 9:4 And Jesus knowing their thoughts said, Wherefore think ye evil in your hearts?
Matthew 9:5 τι γαρ εστιν ευκοπωτερον ειπειν αφεωνται σοι αι αμαρτιαι η ειπειν εγειραι και περιπατει
Matthew 9:5 For whether is easier, to say, Thy sins be forgiven thee; or to say, Arise, and walk?
Matthew 9:6 ινα δε ειδητε οτι εξουσιαν εχει ο υιος του ανθρωπου επι της γης αφιεναι αμαρτιας τοτε λεγει τω παραλυτικω εγερθεις αρον σου την κλινην και υπαγε εις τον οικον σου
Matthew 9:6 But that ye may know that the Son of man hath power on earth to forgive sins, (then saith he to the sick of the palsy,) Arise, take up thy bed, and go unto thine house.
Matthew 9:7 και εγερθεις απηλθεν εις τον οικον αυτου
Matthew 9:7 And he arose, and departed to his house.
Matthew 9:8 ιδοντες δε οι οχλοι εθαυμασαν και εδοξασαν τον θεον τον δοντα εξουσιαν τοιαυτην τοις ανθρωποις
Matthew 9:8 But when the multitudes saw it, they marvelled, and glorified God, which had given such power unto men.
Matthew 9:9 και παραγων ο ιησους εκειθεν ειδεν ανθρωπον καθημενον επι το τελωνιον ματθαιον λεγομενον και λεγει αυτω ακολουθει μοι και αναστας ηκολουθησεν αυτω
Matthew 9:9 And as Jesus passed forth from thence, he saw a man, named Matthew, sitting at the receipt of custom: and he saith unto him, Follow me. And he arose, and followed him.
Matthew 9:10 και εγενετο αυτου ανακειμενου εν τη οικια και ιδου πολλοι τελωναι και αμαρτωλοι ελθοντες συνανεκειντο τω ιησου και τοις μαθηταις αυτου
Matthew 9:10 And it came to pass, as Jesus sat at meat in the house, behold, many publicans and sinners came and sat down with him and his disciples.
Matthew 9:11 και ιδοντες οι φαρισαιοι ειπον τοις μαθηταις αυτου διατι μετα των τελωνων και αμαρτωλων εσθιει ο διδασκαλος υμων
Matthew 9:11 And when the Pharisees saw it, they said unto his disciples, Why eateth your Master with publicans and sinners?
Matthew 9:12 ο δε ιησους ακουσας ειπεν αυτοις ου χρειαν εχουσιν οι ισχυοντες ιατρου αλλ οι κακως εχοντες
Matthew 9:12 But when Jesus heard that, he said unto them, They that be whole need not a physician, but they that are sick.
Matthew 9:13 πορευθεντες δε μαθετε τι εστιν ελεον θελω και ου θυσιαν ου γαρ ηλθον καλεσαι δικαιους αλλ αμαρτωλους εις μετανοιαν
Matthew 9:13 But go ye and learn what that meaneth, I will have mercy, and not sacrifice: for I am not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance.
Matthew 9:14 τοτε προσερχονται αυτω οι μαθηται ιωαννου λεγοντες διατι ημεις και οι φαρισαιοι νηστευομεν πολλα οι δε μαθηται σου ου νηστευουσιν
Matthew 9:14 Then came to him the disciples of John, saying, Why do we and the Pharisees fast oft, but thy disciples fast not?
Matthew 9:15 και ειπεν αυτοις ο ιησους μη δυνανται οι υιοι του νυμφωνος πενθειν εφ οσον μετ αυτων εστιν ο νυμφιος ελευσονται δε ημεραι οταν απαρθη απ αυτων ο νυμφιος και τοτε νηστευσουσιν
Matthew 9:15 And Jesus said unto them, Can the children of the bridechamber mourn, as long as the bridegroom is with them? but the days will come, when the bridegroom shall be taken from them, and then shall they fast.
Matthew 9:16 ουδεις δε επιβαλλει επιβλημα ρακους αγναφου επι ιματιω παλαιω αιρει γαρ το πληρωμα αυτου απο του ιματιου και χειρον σχισμα γινεται
Matthew 9:16 No man putteth a piece of new cloth unto an old garment, for that which is put in to fill it up taketh from the garment, and the rent is made worse.
Matthew 9:17 ουδε βαλλουσιν οινον νεον εις ασκους παλαιους ει δε μηγε ρηγνυνται οι ασκοι και ο οινος εκχειται και οι ασκοι απολουνται αλλα βαλλουσιν οινον νεον εις ασκους καινους και αμφοτερα συντηρουνται
Matthew 9:17 Neither do men put new wine into old bottles: else the bottles break, and the wine runneth out, and the bottles perish: but they put new wine into new bottles, and both are preserved.
Matthew 9:18 ταυτα αυτου λαλουντος αυτοις ιδου αρχων ελθων προσεκυνει αυτω λεγων οτι η θυγατηρ μου αρτι ετελευτησεν αλλα ελθων επιθες την χειρα σου επ αυτην και ζησεται
Matthew 9:18 While he spake these things unto them, behold, there came a certain ruler, and worshipped him, saying, My daughter is even now dead: but come and lay thy hand upon her, and she shall live.
Matthew 9:19 και εγερθεις ο ιησους ηκολουθησεν αυτω και οι μαθηται αυτου
Matthew 9:19 And Jesus arose, and followed him, and so did his disciples.
Matthew 9:20 και ιδου γυνη αιμορροουσα δωδεκα ετη προσελθουσα οπισθεν ηψατο του κρασπεδου του ιματιου αυτου
Matthew 9:20 And, behold, a woman, which was diseased with an issue of blood twelve years, came behind him, and touched the hem of his garment:
Matthew 9:21 ελεγεν γαρ εν εαυτη εαν μονον αψωμαι του ιματιου αυτου σωθησομαι
Matthew 9:21 For she said within herself, If I may but touch his garment, I shall be whole.
Matthew 9:22 ο δε ιησους επιστραφεις και ιδων αυτην ειπεν θαρσει θυγατερ η πιστις σου σεσωκεν σε και εσωθη η γυνη απο της ωρας εκεινης
Matthew 9:22 But Jesus turned him about, and when he saw her, he said, Daughter, be of good comfort; thy faith hath made thee whole.  And the woman was made whole from that hour.
Matthew 9:23 και ελθων ο ιησους εις την οικιαν του αρχοντος και ιδων τους αυλητας και τον οχλον θορυβουμενον
Matthew 9:23 And when Jesus came into the ruler's house, and saw the minstrels and the people making a noise,
Matthew 9:24 λεγει αυτοις αναχωρειτε ου γαρ απεθανεν το κορασιον αλλα καθευδει και κατεγελων αυτου
Matthew 9:24 He said unto them, Give place: for the maid is not dead, but sleepeth. And they laughed him to scorn.
Matthew 9:25 οτε δε εξεβληθη ο οχλος εισελθων εκρατησεν της χειρος αυτης και ηγερθη το κορασιον
Matthew 9:25 But when the people were put forth, he went in, and took her by the hand, and the maid arose.
Matthew 9:26 και εξηλθεν η φημη αυτη εις ολην την γην εκεινην
Matthew 9:26 And the fame hereof went abroad into all that land.
Matthew 9:27 και παραγοντι εκειθεν τω ιησου ηκολουθησαν αυτω δυο τυφλοι κραζοντες και λεγοντες ελεησον ημας υιε δαβιδ
Matthew 9:27 And when Jesus departed thence, two blind men followed him, crying, and saying, Thou son of David, have mercy on us.
Matthew 9:28 ελθοντι δε εις την οικιαν προσηλθον αυτω οι τυφλοι και λεγει αυτοις ο ιησους πιστευετε οτι δυναμαι τουτο ποιησαι λεγουσιν αυτω ναι κυριε
Matthew 9:28 And when he was come into the house, the blind men came to him: and Jesus saith unto them, Believe ye that I am able to do this? They said unto him, Yea, Lord.
Matthew 9:29 τοτε ηψατο των οφθαλμων αυτων λεγων κατα την πιστιν υμων γενηθητω υμιν
Matthew 9:29 Then touched he their eyes, saying, According to your faith be it unto you.
Matthew 9:30 και ανεωχθησαν αυτων οι οφθαλμοι και ενεβριμησατο αυτοις ο ιησους λεγων ορατε μηδεις γινωσκετω
Matthew 9:30 And their eyes were opened; and Jesus straitly charged them, saying, See that no man know it.
Matthew 9:31 οι δε εξελθοντες διεφημισαν αυτον εν ολη τη γη εκεινη
Matthew 9:31 But they, when they were departed, spread abroad his fame in all that country.
Matthew 9:32 αυτων δε εξερχομενων ιδου προσηνεγκαν αυτω ανθρωπον κωφον δαιμονιζομενον
Matthew 9:32 As they went out, behold, they brought to him a dumb man possessed with a devil.
Matthew 9:33 και εκβληθεντος του δαιμονιου ελαλησεν ο κωφος και εθαυμασαν οι οχλοι λεγοντες οτι ουδεποτε εφανη ουτως εν τω ισραηλ
Matthew 9:33 And when the devil was cast out, the dumb spake: and the multitudes marvelled, saying, It was never so seen in Israel.
Matthew 9:34 οι δε φαρισαιοι ελεγον εν τω αρχοντι των δαιμονιων εκβαλλει τα δαιμονια
Matthew 9:34 But the Pharisees said, He casteth out devils through the prince of the devils.
Matthew 9:35 και περιηγεν ο ιησους τας πολεις πασας και τας κωμας διδασκων εν ταις συναγωγαις αυτων και κηρυσσων το ευαγγελιον της βασιλειας και θεραπευων πασαν νοσον και πασαν μαλακιαν εν τω λαω
Matthew 9:35 And Jesus went about all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues, and preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing every sickness and every disease among the people.
Matthew 9:36 ιδων δε τους οχλους εσπλαγχνισθη περι αυτων οτι ησαν εκλελυμενοι και ερριμμενοι ωσει προβατα μη εχοντα ποιμενα
Matthew 9:36 But when he saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion on them, because they fainted, and were scattered abroad, as sheep having no shepherd.
Matthew 9:37 τοτε λεγει τοις μαθηταις αυτου ο μεν θερισμος πολυς οι δε εργαται ολιγοι
Matthew 9:37 Then saith he unto his disciples, The harvest truly is plenteous, but the labourers are few;
Matthew 9:38 δεηθητε ουν του κυριου του θερισμου οπως εκβαλη εργατας εις τον θερισμον αυτου
Matthew 9:38 Pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest, that he will send forth labourers into his harvest.
Matthew 10:1 και προσκαλεσαμενος τους δωδεκα μαθητας αυτου εδωκεν αυτοις εξουσιαν πνευματων ακαθαρτων ωστε εκβαλλειν αυτα και θεραπευειν πασαν νοσον και πασαν μαλακιαν
Matthew 10:1 And when he had called unto him his twelve disciples, he gave them power against unclean spirits, to cast them out, and to heal all manner of sickness and all manner of disease.
Matthew 10:2 των δε δωδεκα αποστολων τα ονοματα εστιν ταυτα πρωτος σιμων ο λεγομενος πετρος και ανδρεας ο αδελφος αυτου ιακωβος ο του ζεβεδαιου και ιωαννης ο αδελφος αυτου
Matthew 10:2 Now the names of the twelve apostles are these; The first, Simon, who is called Peter, and Andrew his brother; James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother;
Matthew 10:3 φιλιππος και βαρθολομαιος θωμας και ματθαιος ο τελωνης ιακωβος ο του αλφαιου και λεββαιος ο επικληθεις θαδδαιος
Matthew 10:3 Philip, and Bartholomew; Thomas, and Matthew the publican; James the son of Alphaeus, and Lebbaeus, whose surname was Thaddaeus;
Matthew 10:4 σιμων ο κανανιτης και ιουδας ισκαριωτης ο και παραδους αυτον
Matthew 10:4 Simon the Canaanite, and Judas Iscariot, who also betrayed him.
Matthew 10:5 τουτους τους δωδεκα απεστειλεν ο ιησους παραγγειλας αυτοις λεγων εις οδον εθνων μη απελθητε και εις πολιν σαμαρειτων μη εισελθητε
Matthew 10:5 These twelve Jesus sent forth, and commanded them, saying, Go not into the way of the Gentiles, and into any city of the Samaritans enter ye not:
Matthew 10:6 πορευεσθε δε μαλλον προς τα προβατα τα απολωλοτα οικου ισραηλ
Matthew 10:6 But go rather to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
Matthew 10:7 πορευομενοι δε κηρυσσετε λεγοντες οτι ηγγικεν η βασιλεια των ουρανων
Matthew 10:7 And as ye go, preach, saying, The kingdom of heaven is at hand.
Matthew 10:8 ασθενουντας θεραπευετε λεπρους καθαριζετε νεκρους εγειρετε δαιμονια εκβαλλετε δωρεαν ελαβετε δωρεαν δοτε
Matthew 10:8 Heal the sick, cleanse the lepers, raise the dead, cast out devils: freely ye have received, freely give.
Matthew 10:9 μη κτησησθε χρυσον μηδε αργυρον μηδε χαλκον εις τας ζωνας υμων
Matthew 10:9 Provide neither gold, nor silver, nor brass in your purses,
Matthew 10:10 μη πηραν εις οδον μηδε δυο χιτωνας μηδε υποδηματα μηδε ραβδον αξιος γαρ ο εργατης της τροφης αυτου εστιν
Matthew 10:10 Nor scrip for your journey, neither two coats, neither shoes, nor yet staves: for the workman is worthy of his meat.
Matthew 10:11 εις ην δ αν πολιν η κωμην εισελθητε εξετασατε τις εν αυτη αξιος εστιν κακει μεινατε εως αν εξελθητε
Matthew 10:11 And into whatsoever city or town ye shall enter, enquire who in it is worthy; and there abide till ye go thence.
Matthew 10:12 εισερχομενοι δε εις την οικιαν ασπασασθε αυτην
Matthew 10:12 And when ye come into an house, salute it.
Matthew 10:13 και εαν μεν η η οικια αξια ελθετω η ειρηνη υμων επ αυτην εαν δε μη η αξια η ειρηνη υμων προς υμας επιστραφητω
Matthew 10:13 And if the house be worthy, let your peace come upon it: but if it be not worthy, let your peace return to you.
Matthew 10:14 και ος εαν μη δεξηται υμας μηδε ακουση τους λογους υμων εξερχομενοι της οικιας η της πολεως εκεινης εκτιναξατε τον κονιορτον των ποδων υμων
Matthew 10:14 And whosoever shall not receive you, nor hear your words, when ye depart out of that house or city, shake off the dust of your feet.
Matthew 10:15 αμην λεγω υμιν ανεκτοτερον εσται γη σοδομων και γομορρων εν ημερα κρισεως η τη πολει εκεινη
Matthew 10:15 Verily I say unto you, It shall be more tolerable for the land of Sodom and Gomorrha in the day of judgment, than for that city.
Matthew 10:16 ιδου εγω αποστελλω υμας ως προβατα εν μεσω λυκων γινεσθε ουν φρονιμοι ως οι οφεις και ακεραιοι ως αι περιστεραι
Matthew 10:16 Behold, I send you forth as sheep in the midst of wolves: be ye therefore wise as serpents, and harmless as doves.
Matthew 10:17 προσεχετε δε απο των ανθρωπων παραδωσουσιν γαρ υμας εις συνεδρια και εν ταις συναγωγαις αυτων μαστιγωσουσιν υμας
Matthew 10:17 But beware of men: for they will deliver you up to the councils, and they will scourge you in their synagogues;
Matthew 10:18 και επι ηγεμονας δε και βασιλεις αχθησεσθε ενεκεν εμου εις μαρτυριον αυτοις και τοις εθνεσιν
Matthew 10:18 And ye shall be brought before governors and kings for my sake, for a testimony against them and the Gentiles.
Matthew 10:19 οταν δε παραδιδωσιν υμας μη μεριμνησητε πως η τι λαλησητε δοθησεται γαρ υμιν εν εκεινη τη ωρα τι λαλησετε
Matthew 10:19 But when they deliver you up, take no thought how or what ye shall speak: for it shall be given you in that same hour what ye shall speak.
Matthew 10:20 ου γαρ υμεις εστε οι λαλουντες αλλα το πνευμα του πατρος υμων το λαλουν εν υμιν
Matthew 10:20 For it is not ye that speak, but the Spirit of your Father which speaketh in you.
Matthew 10:21 παραδωσει δε αδελφος αδελφον εις θανατον και πατηρ τεκνον και επαναστησονται τεκνα επι γονεις και θανατωσουσιν αυτους
Matthew 10:21 And the brother shall deliver up the brother to death, and the father the child: and the children shall rise up against their parents, and cause them to be put to death.
Matthew 10:22 και εσεσθε μισουμενοι υπο παντων δια το ονομα μου ο δε υπομεινας εις τελος ουτος σωθησεται
Matthew 10:22 And ye shall be hated of all men for my name's sake: but he that endureth to the end shall be saved.
Matthew 10:23 οταν δε διωκωσιν υμας εν τη πολει ταυτη φευγετε εις την αλλην αμην γαρ λεγω υμιν ου μη τελεσητε τας πολεις του ισραηλ εως αν ελθη ο υιος του ανθρωπου
Matthew 10:23 But when they persecute you in this city, flee ye into another: for verily I say unto you, Ye shall not have gone over the cities of Israel, till the Son of man be come.
Matthew 10:24 ουκ εστιν μαθητης υπερ τον διδασκαλον ουδε δουλος υπερ τον κυριον αυτου
Matthew 10:24 The disciple is not above his master, nor the servant above his lord.
Matthew 10:25 αρκετον τω μαθητη ινα γενηται ως ο διδασκαλος αυτου και ο δουλος ως ο κυριος αυτου ει τον οικοδεσποτην βεελζεβουλ εκαλεσαν ποσω μαλλον τους οικιακους αυτου
Matthew 10:25 It is enough for the disciple that he be as his master, and the servant as his lord. If they have called the master of the house Beelzebub, how much more shall they call them of his household?
Matthew 10:26 μη ουν φοβηθητε αυτους ουδεν γαρ εστιν κεκαλυμμενον ο ουκ αποκαλυφθησεται και κρυπτον ο ου γνωσθησεται
Matthew 10:26 Fear them not therefore: for there is nothing covered, that shall not be revealed; and hid, that shall not be known.
Matthew 10:27 ο λεγω υμιν εν τη σκοτια ειπατε εν τω φωτι και ο εις το ους ακουετε κηρυξατε επι των δωματων
Matthew 10:27 What I tell you in darkness, that speak ye in light: and what ye hear in the ear, that preach ye upon the housetops.
Matthew 10:28 και μη φοβηθητε απο των αποκτεινοντων το σωμα την δε ψυχην μη δυναμενων αποκτειναι φοβηθητε δε μαλλον τον δυναμενον και ψυχην και σωμα απολεσαι εν γεεννη
Matthew 10:28 And fear not them which kill the body, but are not able to kill the soul: but rather fear him which is able to destroy both soul and body in hell.
Matthew 10:29 ουχι δυο στρουθια ασσαριου πωλειται και εν εξ αυτων ου πεσειται επι την γην ανευ του πατρος υμων
Matthew 10:29 Are not two sparrows sold for a farthing? and one of them shall not fall on the ground without your Father.
Matthew 10:30 υμων δε και αι τριχες της κεφαλης πασαι ηριθμημεναι εισιν
Matthew 10:30 But the very hairs of your head are all numbered.
Matthew 10:31 μη ουν φοβηθητε πολλων στρουθιων διαφερετε υμεις
Matthew 10:31 Fear ye not therefore, ye are of more value than many sparrows.
Matthew 10:32 πας ουν οστις ομολογησει εν εμοι εμπροσθεν των ανθρωπων ομολογησω καγω εν αυτω εμπροσθεν του πατρος μου του εν ουρανοις
Matthew 10:32 Whosoever therefore shall confess me before men, him will I confess also before my Father which is in heaven.
Matthew 10:33 οστις δ αν αρνησηται με εμπροσθεν των ανθρωπων αρνησομαι αυτον καγω εμπροσθεν του πατρος μου του εν ουρανοις
Matthew 10:33 But whosoever shall deny me before men, him will I also deny before my Father which is in heaven.
Matthew 10:34 μη νομισητε οτι ηλθον βαλειν ειρηνην επι την γην ουκ ηλθον βαλειν ειρηνην αλλα μαχαιραν
Matthew 10:34 Think not that I am come to send peace on earth: I came not to send peace, but a sword.
Matthew 10:35 ηλθον γαρ διχασαι ανθρωπον κατα του πατρος αυτου και θυγατερα κατα της μητρος αυτης και νυμφην κατα της πενθερας αυτης
Matthew 10:35 For I am come to set a man at variance against his father, and the daughter against her mother, and the daughter in law against her mother in law.
Matthew 10:36 και εχθροι του ανθρωπου οι οικιακοι αυτου
Matthew 10:36 And a man's foes shall be they of his own household.
Matthew 10:37 ο φιλων πατερα η μητερα υπερ εμε ουκ εστιν μου αξιος και ο φιλων υιον η θυγατερα υπερ εμε ουκ εστιν μου αξιος
Matthew 10:37 He that loveth father or mother more than me is not worthy of me: and he that loveth son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me.
Matthew 10:38 και ος ου λαμβανει τον σταυρον αυτου και ακολουθει οπισω μου ουκ εστιν μου αξιος
Matthew 10:38 And he that taketh not his cross, and followeth after me, is not worthy of me.
Matthew 10:39 ο ευρων την ψυχην αυτου απολεσει αυτην και ο απολεσας την ψυχην αυτου ενεκεν εμου ευρησει αυτην
Matthew 10:39 He that findeth his life shall lose it: and he that loseth his life for my sake shall find it.
Matthew 10:40 ο δεχομενος υμας εμε δεχεται και ο εμε δεχομενος δεχεται τον αποστειλαντα με
Matthew 10:40 He that receiveth you receiveth me, and he that receiveth me receiveth him that sent me.
Matthew 10:41 ο δεχομενος προφητην εις ονομα προφητου μισθον προφητου ληψεται και ο δεχομενος δικαιον εις ονομα δικαιου μισθον δικαιου ληψεται
Matthew 10:41 He that receiveth a prophet in the name of a prophet shall receive a prophet's reward; and he that receiveth a righteous man in the name of a righteous man shall receive a righteous man's reward.
Matthew 10:42 και ος εαν ποτιση ενα των μικρων τουτων ποτηριον ψυχρου μονον εις ονομα μαθητου αμην λεγω υμιν ου μη απολεση τον μισθον αυτου
Matthew 10:42 And whosoever shall give to drink unto one of these little ones a cup of cold water only in the name of a disciple, verily I say unto you, he shall in no wise lose his reward.
Matthew 11:1 και εγενετο οτε ετελεσεν ο ιησους διατασσων τοις δωδεκα μαθηταις αυτου μετεβη εκειθεν του διδασκειν και κηρυσσειν εν ταις πολεσιν αυτων
Matthew 11:1 And it came to pass, when Jesus had made an end of commanding his twelve disciples, he departed thence to teach and to preach in their cities.
Matthew 11:2 ο δε ιωαννης ακουσας εν τω δεσμωτηριω τα εργα του χριστου πεμψας δυο των μαθητων αυτου
Matthew 11:2 Now when John had heard in the prison the works of Christ, he sent two of his disciples,
Matthew 11:3 ειπεν αυτω συ ει ο ερχομενος η ετερον προσδοκωμεν
Matthew 11:3 And said unto him, Art thou he that should come, or do we look for another?
Matthew 11:4 και αποκριθεις ο ιησους ειπεν αυτοις πορευθεντες απαγγειλατε ιωαννη α ακουετε και βλεπετε
Matthew 11:4 Jesus answered and said unto them, Go and shew John again those things which ye do hear and see:
Matthew 11:5 τυφλοι αναβλεπουσιν και χωλοι περιπατουσιν λεπροι καθαριζονται και κωφοι ακουουσιν νεκροι εγειρονται και πτωχοι ευαγγελιζονται
Matthew 11:5 The blind receive their sight, and the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, and the deaf hear, the dead are raised up, and the poor have the gospel preached to them.
Matthew 11:6 και μακαριος εστιν ος εαν μη σκανδαλισθη εν εμοι
Matthew 11:6 And blessed is he, whosoever shall not be offended in me.
Matthew 11:7 τουτων δε πορευομενων ηρξατο ο ιησους λεγειν τοις οχλοις περι ιωαννου τι εξηλθετε εις την ερημον θεασασθαι καλαμον υπο ανεμου σαλευομενον
Matthew 11:7 And as they departed, Jesus began to say unto the multitudes concerning John, What went ye out into the wilderness to see?  A reed shaken with the wind?
Matthew 11:8 αλλα τι εξηλθετε ιδειν ανθρωπον εν μαλακοις ιματιοις ημφιεσμενον ιδου οι τα μαλακα φορουντες εν τοις οικοις των βασιλεων εισιν
Matthew 11:8 But what went ye out for to see? A man clothed in soft raiment? behold, they that wear soft clothing are in kings' houses.
Matthew 11:9 αλλα τι εξηλθετε ιδειν προφητην ναι λεγω υμιν και περισσοτερον προφητου
Matthew 11:9 But what went ye out for to see? A prophet? yea, I say unto you, and more than a prophet.
Matthew 11:10 ουτος γαρ εστιν περι ου γεγραπται ιδου εγω αποστελλω τον αγγελον μου προ προσωπου σου ος κατασκευασει την οδον σου εμπροσθεν σου
Matthew 11:10 For this is he, of whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger before thy face, which shall prepare thy way before thee.
Matthew 11:11 αμην λεγω υμιν ουκ εγηγερται εν γεννητοις γυναικων μειζων ιωαννου του βαπτιστου ο δε μικροτερος εν τη βασιλεια των ουρανων μειζων αυτου εστιν
Matthew 11:11 Verily I say unto you, Among them that are born of women there hath not risen a greater than John the Baptist: notwithstanding he that is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he.
Matthew 11:12 απο δε των ημερων ιωαννου του βαπτιστου εως αρτι η βασιλεια των ουρανων βιαζεται και βιασται αρπαζουσιν αυτην
Matthew 11:12 And from the days of John the Baptist until now the kingdom of heaven suffereth violence, and the violent take it by force.
Matthew 11:13 παντες γαρ οι προφηται και ο νομος εως ιωαννου προεφητευσαν
Matthew 11:13 For all the prophets and the law prophesied until John.
Matthew 11:14 και ει θελετε δεξασθαι αυτος εστιν ηλιας ο μελλων ερχεσθαι
Matthew 11:14 And if ye will receive it, this is Elias, which was for to come.
Matthew 11:15 ο εχων ωτα ακουειν ακουετω
Matthew 11:15 He that hath ears to hear, let him hear.
Matthew 11:16 τινι δε ομοιωσω την γενεαν ταυτην ομοια εστιν παιδαριοις εν αγοραις καθημενοις και προσφωνουσιν τοις εταιροις αυτων
Matthew 11:16 But whereunto shall I liken this generation? It is like unto children sitting in the markets, and calling unto their fellows,
Matthew 11:17 και λεγουσιν ηυλησαμεν υμιν και ουκ ωρχησασθε εθρηνησαμεν υμιν και ουκ εκοψασθε
Matthew 11:17 And saying, We have piped unto you, and ye have not danced; we have mourned unto you, and ye have not lamented.
Matthew 11:18 ηλθεν γαρ ιωαννης μητε εσθιων μητε πινων και λεγουσιν δαιμονιον εχει
Matthew 11:18 For John came neither eating nor drinking, and they say, He hath a devil.
Matthew 11:19 ηλθεν ο υιος του ανθρωπου εσθιων και πινων και λεγουσιν ιδου ανθρωπος φαγος και οινοποτης τελωνων φιλος και αμαρτωλων και εδικαιωθη η σοφια απο των τεκνων αυτης
Matthew 11:19 The Son of man came eating and drinking, and they say, Behold a man gluttonous, and a winebibber, a friend of publicans and sinners. But wisdom is justified of her children.
Matthew 11:20 τοτε ηρξατο ονειδιζειν τας πολεις εν αις εγενοντο αι πλεισται δυναμεις αυτου οτι ου μετενοησαν
Matthew 11:20 Then began he to upbraid the cities wherein most of his mighty works were done, because they repented not:
Matthew 11:21 ουαι σοι χοραζιν ουαι σοι βηθσαιδαν οτι ει εν τυρω και σιδωνι εγενοντο αι δυναμεις αι γενομεναι εν υμιν παλαι αν εν σακκω και σποδω μετενοησαν
Matthew 11:21 Woe unto thee, Chorazin! woe unto thee, Bethsaida! for if the mighty works, which were done in you, had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes.
Matthew 11:22 πλην λεγω υμιν τυρω και σιδωνι ανεκτοτερον εσται εν ημερα κρισεως η υμιν
Matthew 11:22 But I say unto you, It shall be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon at the day of judgment, than for you.
Matthew 11:23 και συ καπερναουμ η εως του ουρανου υψωθεισα εως αδου καταβιβασθηση οτι ει εν σοδομοις εγενοντο αι δυναμεις αι γενομεναι εν σοι εμειναν αν μεχρι της σημερον
Matthew 11:23 And thou, Capernaum, which art exalted unto heaven, shalt be brought down to hell: for if the mighty works, which have been done in thee, had been done in Sodom, it would have remained until this day.
Matthew 11:24 πλην λεγω υμιν οτι γη σοδομων ανεκτοτερον εσται εν ημερα κρισεως η σοι
Matthew 11:24 But I say unto you, That it shall be more tolerable for the land of Sodom in the day of judgment, than for thee.
Matthew 11:25 εν εκεινω τω καιρω αποκριθεις ο ιησους ειπεν εξομολογουμαι σοι πατερ κυριε του ουρανου και της γης οτι απεκρυψας ταυτα απο σοφων και συνετων και απεκαλυψας αυτα νηπιοις
Matthew 11:25 At that time Jesus answered and said, I thank thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent, and hast revealed them unto babes.
Matthew 11:26 ναι ο πατηρ οτι ουτως εγενετο ευδοκια εμπροσθεν σου
Matthew 11:26 Even so, Father: for so it seemed good in thy sight.
Matthew 11:27 παντα μοι παρεδοθη υπο του πατρος μου και ουδεις επιγινωσκει τον υιον ει μη ο πατηρ ουδε τον πατερα τις επιγινωσκει ει μη ο υιος και ω εαν βουληται ο υιος αποκαλυψαι
Matthew 11:27 All things are delivered unto me of my Father: and no man knoweth the Son, but the Father; neither knoweth any man the Father, save the Son, and he to whomsoever the Son will reveal him.
Matthew 11:28 δευτε προς με παντες οι κοπιωντες και πεφορτισμενοι καγω αναπαυσω υμας
Matthew 11:28 Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.
Matthew 11:29 αρατε τον ζυγον μου εφ υμας και μαθετε απ εμου οτι πραος ειμι και ταπεινος τη καρδια και ευρησετε αναπαυσιν ταις ψυχαις υμων
Matthew 11:29 Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls.
Matthew 11:30 ο γαρ ζυγος μου χρηστος και το φορτιον μου ελαφρον εστιν
Matthew 11:30 For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.
Matthew 12:1 εν εκεινω τω καιρω επορευθη ο ιησους τοις σαββασιν δια των σποριμων οι δε μαθηται αυτου επεινασαν και ηρξαντο τιλλειν σταχυας και εσθιειν
Matthew 12:1 At that time Jesus went on the sabbath day through the corn; and his disciples were an hungred, and began to pluck the ears of corn and to eat.
Matthew 12:2 οι δε φαρισαιοι ιδοντες ειπον αυτω ιδου οι μαθηται σου ποιουσιν ο ουκ εξεστιν ποιειν εν σαββατω
Matthew 12:2 But when the Pharisees saw it, they said unto him, Behold, thy disciples do that which is not lawful to do upon the sabbath day.
Matthew 12:3 ο δε ειπεν αυτοις ουκ ανεγνωτε τι εποιησεν δαβιδ οτε επεινασεν αυτος και οι μετ αυτου
Matthew 12:3 But he said unto them, Have ye not read what David did, when he was an hungred, and they that were with him;
Matthew 12:4 πως εισηλθεν εις τον οικον του θεου και τους αρτους της προθεσεως εφαγεν ους ουκ εξον ην αυτω φαγειν ουδε τοις μετ αυτου ει μη τοις ιερευσιν μονοις
Matthew 12:4 How he entered into the house of God, and did eat the shewbread, which was not lawful for him to eat, neither for them which were with him, but only for the priests?
Matthew 12:5 η ουκ ανεγνωτε εν τω νομω οτι τοις σαββασιν οι ιερεις εν τω ιερω το σαββατον βεβηλουσιν και αναιτιοι εισιν
Matthew 12:5 Or have ye not read in the law, how that on the sabbath days the priests in the temple profane the sabbath, and are blameless?
Matthew 12:6 λεγω δε υμιν οτι του ιερου μειζων εστιν ωδε
Matthew 12:6 But I say unto you, That in this place is one greater than the temple.
Matthew 12:7 ει δε εγνωκειτε τι εστιν ελεον θελω και ου θυσιαν ουκ αν κατεδικασατε τους αναιτιους
Matthew 12:7 But if ye had known what this meaneth, I will have mercy, and not sacrifice, ye would not have condemned the guiltless.
Matthew 12:8 κυριος γαρ εστιν και του σαββατου ο υιος του ανθρωπου
Matthew 12:8 For the Son of man is Lord even of the sabbath day.
Matthew 12:9 και μεταβας εκειθεν ηλθεν εις την συναγωγην αυτων
Matthew 12:9 And when he was departed thence, he went into their synagogue:
Matthew 12:10 και ιδου ανθρωπος ην την χειρα εχων ξηραν και επηρωτησαν αυτον λεγοντες ει εξεστιν τοις σαββασιν θεραπευειν ινα κατηγορησωσιν αυτου
Matthew 12:10 And, behold, there was a man which had his hand withered. And they asked him, saying, Is it lawful to heal on the sabbath days? that they might accuse him.
Matthew 12:11 ο δε ειπεν αυτοις τις εσται εξ υμων ανθρωπος ος εξει προβατον εν και εαν εμπεση τουτο τοις σαββασιν εις βοθυνον ουχι κρατησει αυτο και εγερει
Matthew 12:11 And he said unto them, What man shall there be among you, that shall have one sheep, and if it fall into a pit on the sabbath day, will he not lay hold on it, and lift it out?
Matthew 12:12 ποσω ουν διαφερει ανθρωπος προβατου ωστε εξεστιν τοις σαββασιν καλως ποιειν
Matthew 12:12 How much then is a man better than a sheep? Wherefore it is lawful to do well on the sabbath days.
Matthew 12:13 τοτε λεγει τω ανθρωπω εκτεινον την χειρα σου και εξετεινεν και αποκατεσταθη υγιης ως η αλλη
Matthew 12:13 Then saith he to the man, Stretch forth thine hand. And he stretched it forth; and it was restored whole, like as the other.
Matthew 12:14 οι δε φαρισαιοι συμβουλιον ελαβον κατ αυτου εξελθοντες οπως αυτον απολεσωσιν
Matthew 12:14 Then the Pharisees went out, and held a council against him, how they might destroy him.
Matthew 12:15 ο δε ιησους γνους ανεχωρησεν εκειθεν και ηκολουθησαν αυτω οχλοι πολλοι και εθεραπευσεν αυτους παντας
Matthew 12:15 But when Jesus knew it, he withdrew himself from thence: and great multitudes followed him, and he healed them all;
Matthew 12:16 και επετιμησεν αυτοις ινα μη φανερον αυτον ποιησωσιν
Matthew 12:16 And charged them that they should not make him known:
Matthew 12:17 οπως πληρωθη το ρηθεν δια ησαιου του προφητου λεγοντος
Matthew 12:17 That it might be fulfilled which was spoken by Esaias the prophet, saying,
Matthew 12:18 ιδου ο παις μου ον ηρετισα ο αγαπητος μου εις ον ευδοκησεν η ψυχη μου θησω το πνευμα μου επ αυτον και κρισιν τοις εθνεσιν απαγγελει
Matthew 12:18 Behold my servant, whom I have chosen; my beloved, in whom my soul is well pleased: I will put my spirit upon him, and he shall shew judgment to the Gentiles.
Matthew 12:19 ουκ ερισει ουδε κραυγασει ουδε ακουσει τις εν ταις πλατειαις την φωνην αυτου
Matthew 12:19 He shall not strive, nor cry; neither shall any man hear his voice in the streets.
Matthew 12:20 καλαμον συντετριμμενον ου κατεαξει και λινον τυφομενον ου σβεσει εως αν εκβαλη εις νικος την κρισιν
Matthew 12:20 A bruised reed shall he not break, and smoking flax shall he not quench, till he send forth judgment unto victory.
Matthew 12:21 και εν τω ονοματι αυτου εθνη ελπιουσιν
Matthew 12:21 And in his name shall the Gentiles trust.
Matthew 12:22 τοτε προσηνεχθη αυτω δαιμονιζομενος τυφλος και κωφος και εθεραπευσεν αυτον ωστε τον τυφλον και κωφον και λαλειν και βλεπειν
Matthew 12:22 Then was brought unto him one possessed with a devil, blind, and dumb: and he healed him, insomuch that the blind and dumb both spake and saw.
Matthew 12:23 και εξισταντο παντες οι οχλοι και ελεγον μητι ουτος εστιν ο υιος δαβιδ
Matthew 12:23 And all the people were amazed, and said, Is not this the son of David?
Matthew 12:24 οι δε φαρισαιοι ακουσαντες ειπον ουτος ουκ εκβαλλει τα δαιμονια ει μη εν τω βεελζεβουλ αρχοντι των δαιμονιων
Matthew 12:24 But when the Pharisees heard it, they said, This fellow doth not cast out devils, but by Beelzebub the prince of the devils.
Matthew 12:25 ειδως δε ο ιησους τας ενθυμησεις αυτων ειπεν αυτοις πασα βασιλεια μερισθεισα καθ εαυτης ερημουται και πασα πολις η οικια μερισθεισα καθ εαυτης ου σταθησεται
Matthew 12:25 And Jesus knew their thoughts, and said unto them, Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation; and every city or house divided against itself shall not stand:
Matthew 12:26 και ει ο σατανας τον σαταναν εκβαλλει εφ εαυτον εμερισθη πως ουν σταθησεται η βασιλεια αυτου
Matthew 12:26 And if Satan cast out Satan, he is divided against himself; how shall then his kingdom stand?
Matthew 12:27 και ει εγω εν βεελζεβουλ εκβαλλω τα δαιμονια οι υιοι υμων εν τινι εκβαλλουσιν δια τουτο αυτοι υμων εσονται κριται
Matthew 12:27 And if I by Beelzebub cast out devils, by whom do your children cast them out? therefore they shall be your judges.
Matthew 12:28 ει δε εγω εν πνευματι θεου εκβαλλω τα δαιμονια αρα εφθασεν εφ υμας η βασιλεια του θεου
Matthew 12:28 But if I cast out devils by the Spirit of God, then the kingdom of God is come unto you.
Matthew 12:29 η πως δυναται τις εισελθειν εις την οικιαν του ισχυρου και τα σκευη αυτου διαρπασαι εαν μη πρωτον δηση τον ισχυρον και τοτε την οικιαν αυτου διαρπασει
Matthew 12:29 Or else how can one enter into a strong man's house, and spoil his goods, except he first bind the strong man? and then he will spoil his house.
Matthew 12:30 ο μη ων μετ εμου κατ εμου εστιν και ο μη συναγων μετ εμου σκορπιζει
Matthew 12:30 He that is not with me is against me; and he that gathereth not with me scattereth abroad.
Matthew 12:31 δια τουτο λεγω υμιν πασα αμαρτια και βλασφημια αφεθησεται τοις ανθρωποις η δε του πνευματος βλασφημια ουκ αφεθησεται τοις ανθρωποις
Matthew 12:31 Wherefore I say unto you, All manner of sin and blasphemy shall be forgiven unto men: but the blasphemy against the Holy Ghost shall not be forgiven unto men.
Matthew 12:32 και ος αν ειπη λογον κατα του υιου του ανθρωπου αφεθησεται αυτω ος δ αν ειπη κατα του πνευματος του αγιου ουκ αφεθησεται αυτω ουτε εν τουτω τω αιωνι ουτε εν τω μελλοντι
Matthew 12:32 And whosoever speaketh a word against the Son of man, it shall be forgiven him: but whosoever speaketh against the Holy Ghost, it shall not be forgiven him, neither in this world, neither in the world to come.
Matthew 12:33 η ποιησατε το δενδρον καλον και τον καρπον αυτου καλον η ποιησατε το δενδρον σαπρον και τον καρπον αυτου σαπρον εκ γαρ του καρπου το δενδρον γινωσκεται
Matthew 12:33 Either make the tree good, and his fruit good; or else make the tree corrupt, and his fruit corrupt: for the tree is known by his fruit.
Matthew 12:34 γεννηματα εχιδνων πως δυνασθε αγαθα λαλειν πονηροι οντες εκ γαρ του περισσευματος της καρδιας το στομα λαλει
Matthew 12:34 O generation of vipers, how can ye, being evil, speak good things? for out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh.
Matthew 12:35 ο αγαθος ανθρωπος εκ του αγαθου θησαυρου της καρδιας εκβαλλει τα αγαθα και ο πονηρος ανθρωπος εκ του πονηρου θησαυρου εκβαλλει πονηρα
Matthew 12:35 A good man out of the good treasure of the heart bringeth forth good things: and an evil man out of the evil treasure bringeth forth evil things.
Matthew 12:36 λεγω δε υμιν οτι παν ρημα αργον ο εαν λαλησωσιν οι ανθρωποι αποδωσουσιν περι αυτου λογον εν ημερα κρισεως
Matthew 12:36 But I say unto you, That every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give account thereof in the day of judgment.
Matthew 12:37 εκ γαρ των λογων σου δικαιωθηση και εκ των λογων σου καταδικασθηση
Matthew 12:37 For by thy words thou shalt be justified, and by thy words thou shalt be condemned.
Matthew 12:38 τοτε απεκριθησαν τινες των γραμματεων και φαρισαιων λεγοντες διδασκαλε θελομεν απο σου σημειον ιδειν
Matthew 12:38 Then certain of the scribes and of the Pharisees answered, saying, Master, we would see a sign from thee.
Matthew 12:39 ο δε αποκριθεις ειπεν αυτοις γενεα πονηρα και μοιχαλις σημειον επιζητει και σημειον ου δοθησεται αυτη ει μη το σημειον ιωνα του προφητου
Matthew 12:39 But he answered and said unto them, An evil and adulterous generation seeketh after a sign; and there shall no sign be given to it, but the sign of the prophet Jonas:
Matthew 12:40 ωσπερ γαρ ην ιωνας εν τη κοιλια του κητους τρεις ημερας και τρεις νυκτας ουτως εσται ο υιος του ανθρωπου εν τη καρδια της γης τρεις ημερας και τρεις νυκτας
Matthew 12:40 For as Jonas was three days and three nights in the whale's belly; so shall the Son of man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth.
Matthew 12:41 ανδρες νινευιται αναστησονται εν τη κρισει μετα της γενεας ταυτης και κατακρινουσιν αυτην οτι μετενοησαν εις το κηρυγμα ιωνα και ιδου πλειον ιωνα ωδε
Matthew 12:41 The men of Nineveh shall rise in judgment with this generation, and shall condemn it: because they repented at the preaching of Jonas; and, behold, a greater than Jonas is here.
Matthew 12:42 βασιλισσα νοτου εγερθησεται εν τη κρισει μετα της γενεας ταυτης και κατακρινει αυτην οτι ηλθεν εκ των περατων της γης ακουσαι την σοφιαν σολομωντος και ιδου πλειον σολομωντος ωδε
Matthew 12:42 The queen of the south shall rise up in the judgment with this generation, and shall condemn it: for she came from the uttermost parts of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon; and, behold, a greater than Solomon is here.
Matthew 12:43 οταν δε το ακαθαρτον πνευμα εξελθη απο του ανθρωπου διερχεται δι ανυδρων τοπων ζητουν αναπαυσιν και ουχ ευρισκει
Matthew 12:43 When the unclean spirit is gone out of a man, he walketh through dry places, seeking rest, and findeth none.
Matthew 12:44 τοτε λεγει επιστρεψω εις τον οικον μου οθεν εξηλθον και ελθον ευρισκει σχολαζοντα σεσαρωμενον και κεκοσμημενον
Matthew 12:44 Then he saith, I will return into my house from whence I came out; and when he is come, he findeth it empty, swept, and garnished.
Matthew 12:45 τοτε πορευεται και παραλαμβανει μεθ εαυτου επτα ετερα πνευματα πονηροτερα εαυτου και εισελθοντα κατοικει εκει και γινεται τα εσχατα του ανθρωπου εκεινου χειρονα των πρωτων ουτως εσται και τη γενεα ταυτη τη πονηρα
Matthew 12:45 Then goeth he, and taketh with himself seven other spirits more wicked than himself, and they enter in and dwell there: and the last state of that man is worse than the first. Even so shall it be also unto this wicked generation.
Matthew 12:46 ετι δε αυτου λαλουντος τοις οχλοις ιδου η μητηρ και οι αδελφοι αυτου ειστηκεισαν εξω ζητουντες αυτω λαλησαι
Matthew 12:46 While he yet talked to the people, behold, his mother and his brethren stood without, desiring to speak with him.
Matthew 12:47 ειπεν δε τις αυτω ιδου η μητηρ σου και οι αδελφοι σου εξω εστηκασιν ζητουντες σοι λαλησαι
Matthew 12:47 Then one said unto him, Behold, thy mother and thy brethren stand without, desiring to speak with thee.
Matthew 12:48 ο δε αποκριθεις ειπεν τω ειποντι αυτω τις εστιν η μητηρ μου και τινες εισιν οι αδελφοι μου
Matthew 12:48 But he answered and said unto him that told him, Who is my mother? and who are my brethren?
Matthew 12:49 και εκτεινας την χειρα αυτου επι τους μαθητας αυτου ειπεν ιδου η μητηρ μου και οι αδελφοι μου
Matthew 12:49 And he stretched forth his hand toward his disciples, and said, Behold my mother and my brethren!
Matthew 12:50 οστις γαρ αν ποιηση το θελημα του πατρος μου του εν ουρανοις αυτος μου αδελφος και αδελφη και μητηρ εστιν
Matthew 12:50 For whosoever shall do the will of my Father which is in heaven, the same is my brother, and sister, and mother.
Matthew 13:1 εν δε τη ημερα εκεινη εξελθων ο ιησους απο της οικιας εκαθητο παρα την θαλασσαν
Matthew 13:1 The same day went Jesus out of the house, and sat by the sea side.
Matthew 13:2 και συνηχθησαν προς αυτον οχλοι πολλοι ωστε αυτον εις το πλοιον εμβαντα καθησθαι και πας ο οχλος επι τον αιγιαλον ειστηκει
Matthew 13:2 And great multitudes were gathered together unto him, so that he went into a ship, and sat; and the whole multitude stood on the shore.
Matthew 13:3 και ελαλησεν αυτοις πολλα εν παραβολαις λεγων ιδου εξηλθεν ο σπειρων του σπειρειν
Matthew 13:3 And he spake many things unto them in parables, saying, Behold, a sower went forth to sow;
Matthew 13:4 και εν τω σπειρειν αυτον α μεν επεσεν παρα την οδον και ηλθεν τα πετεινα και κατεφαγεν αυτα
Matthew 13:4 And when he sowed, some seeds fell by the way side, and the fowls came and devoured them up:
Matthew 13:5 αλλα δε επεσεν επι τα πετρωδη οπου ουκ ειχεν γην πολλην και ευθεως εξανετειλεν δια το μη εχειν βαθος γης
Matthew 13:5 Some fell upon stony places, where they had not much earth: and forthwith they sprung up, because they had no deepness of earth:
Matthew 13:6 ηλιου δε ανατειλαντος εκαυματισθη και δια το μη εχειν ριζαν εξηρανθη
Matthew 13:6 And when the sun was up, they were scorched; and because they had no root, they withered away.
Matthew 13:7 αλλα δε επεσεν επι τας ακανθας και ανεβησαν αι ακανθαι και απεπνιξαν αυτα
Matthew 13:7 And some fell among thorns; and the thorns sprung up, and choked them:
Matthew 13:8 αλλα δε επεσεν επι την γην την καλην και εδιδου καρπον ο μεν εκατον ο δε εξηκοντα ο δε τριακοντα
Matthew 13:8 But other fell into good ground, and brought forth fruit, some an hundredfold, some sixtyfold, some thirtyfold.
Matthew 13:9 ο εχων ωτα ακουειν ακουετω
Matthew 13:9 Who hath ears to hear, let him hear.
Matthew 13:10 και προσελθοντες οι μαθηται ειπον αυτω διατι εν παραβολαις λαλεις αυτοις
Matthew 13:10 And the disciples came, and said unto him, Why speakest thou unto them in parables?
Matthew 13:11 ο δε αποκριθεις ειπεν αυτοις οτι υμιν δεδοται γνωναι τα μυστηρια της βασιλειας των ουρανων εκεινοις δε ου δεδοται
Matthew 13:11 He answered and said unto them, Because it is given unto you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but to them it is not given.
Matthew 13:12 οστις γαρ εχει δοθησεται αυτω και περισσευθησεται οστις δε ουκ εχει και ο εχει αρθησεται απ αυτου
Matthew 13:12 For whosoever hath, to him shall be given, and he shall have more abundance: but whosoever hath not, from him shall be taken away even that he hath.
Matthew 13:13 δια τουτο εν παραβολαις αυτοις λαλω οτι βλεποντες ου βλεπουσιν και ακουοντες ουκ ακουουσιν ουδε συνιουσιν
Matthew 13:13 Therefore speak I to them in parables: because they seeing see not; and hearing they hear not, neither do they understand.
Matthew 13:14 και αναπληρουται επ αυτοις η προφητεια ησαιου η λεγουσα ακοη ακουσετε και ου μη συνητε και βλεποντες βλεψετε και ου μη ιδητε
Matthew 13:14 And in them is fulfilled the prophecy of Esaias, which saith, By hearing ye shall hear, and shall not understand; and seeing ye shall see, and shall not perceive:
Matthew 13:15 επαχυνθη γαρ η καρδια του λαου τουτου και τοις ωσιν βαρεως ηκουσαν και τους οφθαλμους αυτων εκαμμυσαν μηποτε ιδωσιν τοις οφθαλμοις και τοις ωσιν ακουσωσιν και τη καρδια συνωσιν και επιστρεψωσιν και ιασωμαι αυτους
Matthew 13:15 For this people's heart is waxed gross, and their ears are dull of hearing, and their eyes they have closed; lest at any time they should see with their eyes and hear with their ears, and should understand with their heart, and should be converted, and I should heal them.
Matthew 13:16 υμων δε μακαριοι οι οφθαλμοι οτι βλεπουσιν και τα ωτα υμων οτι ακουει
Matthew 13:16 But blessed are your eyes, for they see: and your ears, for they hear.
Matthew 13:17 αμην γαρ λεγω υμιν οτι πολλοι προφηται και δικαιοι επεθυμησαν ιδειν α βλεπετε και ουκ ειδον και ακουσαι α ακουετε και ουκ ηκουσαν
Matthew 13:17 For verily I say unto you, That many prophets and righteous men have desired to see those things which ye see, and have not seen them; and to hear those things which ye hear, and have not heard them.
Matthew 13:18 υμεις ουν ακουσατε την παραβολην του σπειροντος
Matthew 13:18 Hear ye therefore the parable of the sower.
Matthew 13:19 παντος ακουοντος τον λογον της βασιλειας και μη συνιεντος ερχεται ο πονηρος και αρπαζει το εσπαρμενον εν τη καρδια αυτου ουτος εστιν ο παρα την οδον σπαρεις
Matthew 13:19 When any one heareth the word of the kingdom, and understandeth it not, then cometh the wicked one, and catcheth away that which was sown in his heart. This is he which received seed by the way side.
Matthew 13:20 ο δε επι τα πετρωδη σπαρεις ουτος εστιν ο τον λογον ακουων και ευθυς μετα χαρας λαμβανων αυτον
Matthew 13:20 But he that received the seed into stony places, the same is he that heareth the word, and anon with joy receiveth it;
Matthew 13:21 ουκ εχει δε ριζαν εν εαυτω αλλα προσκαιρος εστιν γενομενης δε θλιψεως η διωγμου δια τον λογον ευθυς σκανδαλιζεται
Matthew 13:21 Yet hath he not root in himself, but dureth for a while: for when tribulation or persecution ariseth because of the word, by and by he is offended.
Matthew 13:22 ο δε εις τας ακανθας σπαρεις ουτος εστιν ο τον λογον ακουων και η μεριμνα του αιωνος τουτου και η απατη του πλουτου συμπνιγει τον λογον και ακαρπος γινεται
Matthew 13:22 He also that received seed among the thorns is he that heareth the word; and the care of this world, and the deceitfulness of riches, choke the word, and he becometh unfruitful.
Matthew 13:23 ο δε επι την γην την καλην σπαρεις ουτος εστιν ο τον λογον ακουων και συνιων ος δη καρποφορει και ποιει ο μεν εκατον ο δε εξηκοντα ο δε τριακοντα
Matthew 13:23 But he that received seed into the good ground is he that heareth the word, and understandeth it; which also beareth fruit, and bringeth forth, some an hundredfold, some sixty, some thirty.
Matthew 13:24 αλλην παραβολην παρεθηκεν αυτοις λεγων ωμοιωθη η βασιλεια των ουρανων ανθρωπω σπειροντι καλον σπερμα εν τω αγρω αυτου
Matthew 13:24 Another parable put he forth unto them, saying, The kingdom of heaven is likened unto a man which sowed good seed in his field:
Matthew 13:25 εν δε τω καθευδειν τους ανθρωπους ηλθεν αυτου ο εχθρος και εσπειρεν ζιζανια ανα μεσον του σιτου και απηλθεν
Matthew 13:25 But while men slept, his enemy came and sowed tares among the wheat, and went his way.
Matthew 13:26 οτε δε εβλαστησεν ο χορτος και καρπον εποιησεν τοτε εφανη και τα ζιζανια
Matthew 13:26 But when the blade was sprung up, and brought forth fruit, then appeared the tares also.
Matthew 13:27 προσελθοντες δε οι δουλοι του οικοδεσποτου ειπον αυτω κυριε ουχι καλον σπερμα εσπειρας εν τω σω αγρω ποθεν ουν εχει τα ζιζανια
Matthew 13:27 So the servants of the householder came and said unto him, Sir, didst not thou sow good seed in thy field? from whence then hath it tares?
Matthew 13:28 ο δε εφη αυτοις εχθρος ανθρωπος τουτο εποιησεν οι δε δουλοι ειπον αυτω θελεις ουν απελθοντες συλλεξωμεν αυτα
Matthew 13:28 He said unto them, An enemy hath done this. The servants said unto him, Wilt thou then that we go and gather them up?
Matthew 13:29 ο δε εφη ου μηποτε συλλεγοντες τα ζιζανια εκριζωσητε αμα αυτοις τον σιτον
Matthew 13:29 But he said, Nay; lest while ye gather up the tares, ye root up also the wheat with them.
Matthew 13:30 αφετε συναυξανεσθαι αμφοτερα μεχρι του θερισμου και εν τω καιρω του θερισμου ερω τοις θερισταις συλλεξατε πρωτον τα ζιζανια και δησατε αυτα εις δεσμας προς το κατακαυσαι αυτα τον δε σιτον συναγαγετε εις την αποθηκην μου
Matthew 13:30 Let both grow together until the harvest: and in the time of harvest I will say to the reapers, Gather ye together first the tares, and bind them in bundles to burn them: but gather the wheat into my barn.
Matthew 13:31 αλλην παραβολην παρεθηκεν αυτοις λεγων ομοια εστιν η βασιλεια των ουρανων κοκκω σιναπεως ον λαβων ανθρωπος εσπειρεν εν τω αγρω αυτου
Matthew 13:31 Another parable put he forth unto them, saying, The kingdom of heaven is like to a grain of mustard seed, which a man took, and sowed in his field:
Matthew 13:32 ο μικροτερον μεν εστιν παντων των σπερματων οταν δε αυξηθη μειζον των λαχανων εστιν και γινεται δενδρον ωστε ελθειν τα πετεινα του ουρανου και κατασκηνουν εν τοις κλαδοις αυτου
Matthew 13:32 Which indeed is the least of all seeds: but when it is grown, it is the greatest among herbs, and becometh a tree, so that the birds of the air come and lodge in the branches thereof.
Matthew 13:33 αλλην παραβολην ελαλησεν αυτοις ομοια εστιν η βασιλεια των ουρανων ζυμη ην λαβουσα γυνη ενεκρυψεν εις αλευρου σατα τρια εως ου εζυμωθη ολον
Matthew 13:33 Another parable spake he unto them; The kingdom of heaven is like unto leaven, which a woman took, and hid in three measures of meal, till the whole was leavened.
Matthew 13:34 ταυτα παντα ελαλησεν ο ιησους εν παραβολαις τοις οχλοις και χωρις παραβολης ουκ ελαλει αυτοις
Matthew 13:34 All these things spake Jesus unto the multitude in parables; and without a parable spake he not unto them:
Matthew 13:35 οπως πληρωθη το ρηθεν δια του προφητου λεγοντος ανοιξω εν παραβολαις το στομα μου ερευξομαι κεκρυμμενα απο καταβολης κοσμου
Matthew 13:35 That it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophet, saying, I will open my mouth in parables; I will utter things which have been kept secret from the foundation of the world.
Matthew 13:36 τοτε αφεις τους οχλους ηλθεν εις την οικιαν ο ιησους και προσηλθον αυτω οι μαθηται αυτου λεγοντες φρασον ημιν την παραβολην των ζιζανιων του αγρου
Matthew 13:36 Then Jesus sent the multitude away, and went into the house: and his disciples came unto him, saying, Declare unto us the parable of the tares of the field.
Matthew 13:37 ο δε αποκριθεις ειπεν αυτοις ο σπειρων το καλον σπερμα εστιν ο υιος του ανθρωπου
Matthew 13:37 He answered and said unto them, He that soweth the good seed is the Son of man;
Matthew 13:38 ο δε αγρος εστιν ο κοσμος το δε καλον σπερμα ουτοι εισιν οι υιοι της βασιλειας τα δε ζιζανια εισιν οι υιοι του πονηρου
Matthew 13:38 The field is the world; the good seed are the children of the kingdom; but the tares are the children of the wicked one;
Matthew 13:39 ο δε εχθρος ο σπειρας αυτα εστιν ο διαβολος ο δε θερισμος συντελεια του αιωνος εστιν οι δε θερισται αγγελοι εισιν
Matthew 13:39 The enemy that sowed them is the devil; the harvest is the end of the world; and the reapers are the angels.
Matthew 13:40 ωσπερ ουν συλλεγεται τα ζιζανια και πυρι κατακαιεται ουτως εσται εν τη συντελεια του αιωνος τουτου
Matthew 13:40 As therefore the tares are gathered and burned in the fire; so shall it be in the end of this world.
Matthew 13:41 αποστελει ο υιος του ανθρωπου τους αγγελους αυτου και συλλεξουσιν εκ της βασιλειας αυτου παντα τα σκανδαλα και τους ποιουντας την ανομιαν
Matthew 13:41 The Son of man shall send forth his angels, and they shall gather out of his kingdom all things that offend, and them which do iniquity;
Matthew 13:42 και βαλουσιν αυτους εις την καμινον του πυρος εκει εσται ο κλαυθμος και ο βρυγμος των οδοντων
Matthew 13:42 And shall cast them into a furnace of fire: there shall be wailing and gnashing of teeth.
Matthew 13:43 τοτε οι δικαιοι εκλαμψουσιν ως ο ηλιος εν τη βασιλεια του πατρος αυτων ο εχων ωτα ακουειν ακουετω
Matthew 13:43 Then shall the righteous shine forth as the sun in the kingdom of their Father. Who hath ears to hear, let him hear.
Matthew 13:44 παλιν ομοια εστιν η βασιλεια των ουρανων θησαυρω κεκρυμμενω εν τω αγρω ον ευρων ανθρωπος εκρυψεν και απο της χαρας αυτου υπαγει και παντα οσα εχει πωλει και αγοραζει τον αγρον εκεινον
Matthew 13:44 Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto treasure hid in a field; the which when a man hath found, he hideth, and for joy thereof goeth and selleth all that he hath, and buyeth that field.
Matthew 13:45 παλιν ομοια εστιν η βασιλεια των ουρανων ανθρωπω εμπορω ζητουντι καλους μαργαριτας
Matthew 13:45 Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a merchant man, seeking goodly pearls:
Matthew 13:46 ος ευρων ενα πολυτιμον μαργαριτην απελθων πεπρακεν παντα οσα ειχεν και ηγορασεν αυτον
Matthew 13:46 Who, when he had found one pearl of great price, went and sold all that he had, and bought it.
Matthew 13:47 παλιν ομοια εστιν η βασιλεια των ουρανων σαγηνη βληθειση εις την θαλασσαν και εκ παντος γενους συναγαγουση
Matthew 13:47 Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a net, that was cast into the sea, and gathered of every kind:
Matthew 13:48 ην οτε επληρωθη αναβιβασαντες επι τον αιγιαλον και καθισαντες συνελεξαν τα καλα εις αγγεια τα δε σαπρα εξω εβαλον
Matthew 13:48 Which, when it was full, they drew to shore, and sat down, and gathered the good into vessels, but cast the bad away.
Matthew 13:49 ουτως εσται εν τη συντελεια του αιωνος εξελευσονται οι αγγελοι και αφοριουσιν τους πονηρους εκ μεσου των δικαιων
Matthew 13:49 So shall it be at the end of the world: the angels shall come forth, and sever the wicked from among the just,
Matthew 13:50 και βαλουσιν αυτους εις την καμινον του πυρος εκει εσται ο κλαυθμος και ο βρυγμος των οδοντων
Matthew 13:50 And shall cast them into the furnace of fire: there shall be wailing and gnashing of teeth.
Matthew 13:51 λεγει αυτοις ο ιησους συνηκατε ταυτα παντα λεγουσιν αυτω ναι κυριε
Matthew 13:51 Jesus saith unto them, Have ye understood all these things?  They say unto him, Yea, Lord.
Matthew 13:52 ο δε ειπεν αυτοις δια τουτο πας γραμματευς μαθητευθεις εις την βασιλειαν των ουρανων ομοιος εστιν ανθρωπω οικοδεσποτη οστις εκβαλλει εκ του θησαυρου αυτου καινα και παλαια
Matthew 13:52 Then said he unto them, Therefore every scribe which is instructed unto the kingdom of heaven is like unto a man that is an householder, which bringeth forth out of his treasure things new and old.
Matthew 13:53 και εγενετο οτε ετελεσεν ο ιησους τας παραβολας ταυτας μετηρεν εκειθεν
Matthew 13:53 And it came to pass, that when Jesus had finished these parables, he departed thence.
Matthew 13:54 και ελθων εις την πατριδα αυτου εδιδασκεν αυτους εν τη συναγωγη αυτων ωστε εκπληττεσθαι αυτους και λεγειν ποθεν τουτω η σοφια αυτη και αι δυναμεις
Matthew 13:54 And when he was come into his own country, he taught them in their synagogue, insomuch that they were astonished, and said, Whence hath this man this wisdom, and these mighty works?
Matthew 13:55 ουχ ουτος εστιν ο του τεκτονος υιος ουχι η μητηρ αυτου λεγεται μαριαμ και οι αδελφοι αυτου ιακωβος και ιωσης και σιμων και ιουδας
Matthew 13:55 Is not this the carpenter's son? is not his mother called Mary? and his brethren, James, and Joses, and Simon, and Judas?
Matthew 13:56 και αι αδελφαι αυτου ουχι πασαι προς ημας εισιν ποθεν ουν τουτω ταυτα παντα
Matthew 13:56 And his sisters, are they not all with us? Whence then hath this man all these things?
Matthew 13:57 και εσκανδαλιζοντο εν αυτω ο δε ιησους ειπεν αυτοις ουκ εστιν προφητης ατιμος ει μη εν τη πατριδι αυτου και εν τη οικια αυτου
Matthew 13:57 And they were offended in him. But Jesus said unto them, A prophet is not without honour, save in his own country, and in his own house.
Matthew 13:58 και ουκ εποιησεν εκει δυναμεις πολλας δια την απιστιαν αυτων
Matthew 13:58 And he did not many mighty works there because of their unbelief.
Matthew 14:1 εν εκεινω τω καιρω ηκουσεν ηρωδης ο τετραρχης την ακοην ιησου
Matthew 14:1 At that time Herod the tetrarch heard of the fame of Jesus,
Matthew 14:2 και ειπεν τοις παισιν αυτου ουτος εστιν ιωαννης ο βαπτιστης αυτος ηγερθη απο των νεκρων και δια τουτο αι δυναμεις ενεργουσιν εν αυτω
Matthew 14:2 And said unto his servants, This is John the Baptist; he is risen from the dead; and therefore mighty works do shew forth themselves in him.
Matthew 14:3 ο γαρ ηρωδης κρατησας τον ιωαννην εδησεν αυτον και εθετο εν φυλακη δια ηρωδιαδα την γυναικα φιλιππου του αδελφου αυτου
Matthew 14:3 For Herod had laid hold on John, and bound him, and put him in prison for Herodias' sake, his brother Philip's wife.
Matthew 14:4 ελεγεν γαρ αυτω ο ιωαννης ουκ εξεστιν σοι εχειν αυτην
Matthew 14:4 For John said unto him, It is not lawful for thee to have her.
Matthew 14:5 και θελων αυτον αποκτειναι εφοβηθη τον οχλον οτι ως προφητην αυτον ειχον
Matthew 14:5 And when he would have put him to death, he feared the multitude, because they counted him as a prophet.
Matthew 14:6 γενεσιων δε αγομενων του ηρωδου ωρχησατο η θυγατηρ της ηρωδιαδος εν τω μεσω και ηρεσεν τω ηρωδη
Matthew 14:6 But when Herod's birthday was kept, the daughter of Herodias danced before them, and pleased Herod.
Matthew 14:7 οθεν μεθ ορκου ωμολογησεν αυτη δουναι ο εαν αιτησηται
Matthew 14:7 Whereupon he promised with an oath to give her whatsoever she would ask.
Matthew 14:8 η δε προβιβασθεισα υπο της μητρος αυτης δος μοι φησιν ωδε επι πινακι την κεφαλην ιωαννου του βαπτιστου
Matthew 14:8 And she, being before instructed of her mother, said, Give me here John Baptist's head in a charger.
Matthew 14:9 και ελυπηθη ο βασιλευς δια δε τους ορκους και τους συνανακειμενους εκελευσεν δοθηναι
Matthew 14:9 And the king was sorry: nevertheless for the oath's sake, and them which sat with him at meat, he commanded it to be given her.
Matthew 14:10 και πεμψας απεκεφαλισεν τον ιωαννην εν τη φυλακη
Matthew 14:10 And he sent, and beheaded John in the prison.
Matthew 14:11 και ηνεχθη η κεφαλη αυτου επι πινακι και εδοθη τω κορασιω και ηνεγκεν τη μητρι αυτης
Matthew 14:11 And his head was brought in a charger, and given to the damsel: and she brought it to her mother.
Matthew 14:12 και προσελθοντες οι μαθηται αυτου ηραν το σωμα και εθαψαν αυτο και ελθοντες απηγγειλαν τω ιησου
Matthew 14:12 And his disciples came, and took up the body, and buried it, and went and told Jesus.
Matthew 14:13 και ακουσας ο ιησους ανεχωρησεν εκειθεν εν πλοιω εις ερημον τοπον κατ ιδιαν και ακουσαντες οι οχλοι ηκολουθησαν αυτω πεζη απο των πολεων
Matthew 14:13 When Jesus heard of it, he departed thence by ship into a desert place apart: and when the people had heard thereof, they followed him on foot out of the cities.
Matthew 14:14 και εξελθων ο ιησους ειδεν πολυν οχλον και εσπλαγχνισθη επ αυτους και εθεραπευσεν τους αρρωστους αυτων
Matthew 14:14 And Jesus went forth, and saw a great multitude, and was moved with compassion toward them, and he healed their sick.
Matthew 14:15 οψιας δε γενομενης προσηλθον αυτω οι μαθηται αυτου λεγοντες ερημος εστιν ο τοπος και η ωρα ηδη παρηλθεν απολυσον τους οχλους ινα απελθοντες εις τας κωμας αγορασωσιν εαυτοις βρωματα
Matthew 14:15 And when it was evening, his disciples came to him, saying, This is a desert place, and the time is now past; send the multitude away, that they may go into the villages, and buy themselves victuals.
Matthew 14:16 ο δε ιησους ειπεν αυτοις ου χρειαν εχουσιν απελθειν δοτε αυτοις υμεις φαγειν
Matthew 14:16 But Jesus said unto them, They need not depart; give ye them to eat.
Matthew 14:17 οι δε λεγουσιν αυτω ουκ εχομεν ωδε ει μη πεντε αρτους και δυο ιχθυας
Matthew 14:17 And they say unto him, We have here but five loaves, and two fishes.
Matthew 14:18 ο δε ειπεν φερετε μοι αυτους ωδε
Matthew 14:18 He said, Bring them hither to me.
Matthew 14:19 και κελευσας τους οχλους ανακλιθηναι επι τους χορτους και λαβων τους πεντε αρτους και τους δυο ιχθυας αναβλεψας εις τον ουρανον ευλογησεν και κλασας εδωκεν τοις μαθηταις τους αρτους οι δε μαθηται τοις οχλοις
Matthew 14:19 And he commanded the multitude to sit down on the grass, and took the five loaves, and the two fishes, and looking up to heaven, he blessed, and brake, and gave the loaves to his disciples, and the disciples to the multitude.
Matthew 14:20 και εφαγον παντες και εχορτασθησαν και ηραν το περισσευον των κλασματων δωδεκα κοφινους πληρεις
Matthew 14:20 And they did all eat, and were filled: and they took up of the fragments that remained twelve baskets full.
Matthew 14:21 οι δε εσθιοντες ησαν ανδρες ωσει πεντακισχιλιοι χωρις γυναικων και παιδιων
Matthew 14:21 And they that had eaten were about five thousand men, beside women and children.
Matthew 14:22 και ευθεως ηναγκασεν ο ιησους τους μαθητας αυτου εμβηναι εις το πλοιον και προαγειν αυτον εις το περαν εως ου απολυση τους οχλους
Matthew 14:22 And straightway Jesus constrained his disciples to get into a ship, and to go before him unto the other side, while he sent the multitudes away.
Matthew 14:23 και απολυσας τους οχλους ανεβη εις το ορος κατ ιδιαν προσευξασθαι οψιας δε γενομενης μονος ην εκει
Matthew 14:23 And when he had sent the multitudes away, he went up into a mountain apart to pray: and when the evening was come, he was there alone.
Matthew 14:24 το δε πλοιον ηδη μεσον της θαλασσης ην βασανιζομενον υπο των κυματων ην γαρ εναντιος ο ανεμος
Matthew 14:24 But the ship was now in the midst of the sea, tossed with waves: for the wind was contrary.
Matthew 14:25 τεταρτη δε φυλακη της νυκτος απηλθεν προς αυτους ο ιησους περιπατων επι της θαλασσης
Matthew 14:25 And in the fourth watch of the night Jesus went unto them, walking on the sea.
Matthew 14:26 και ιδοντες αυτον οι μαθηται επι την θαλασσαν περιπατουντα εταραχθησαν λεγοντες οτι φαντασμα εστιν και απο του φοβου εκραξαν
Matthew 14:26 And when the disciples saw him walking on the sea, they were troubled, saying, It is a spirit; and they cried out for fear.
Matthew 14:27 ευθεως δε ελαλησεν αυτοις ο ιησους λεγων θαρσειτε εγω ειμι μη φοβεισθε
Matthew 14:27 But straightway Jesus spake unto them, saying, Be of good cheer; it is I; be not afraid.
Matthew 14:28 αποκριθεις δε αυτω ο πετρος ειπεν κυριε ει συ ει κελευσον με προς σε ελθειν επι τα υδατα
Matthew 14:28 And Peter answered him and said, Lord, if it be thou, bid me come unto thee on the water.
Matthew 14:29 ο δε ειπεν ελθε και καταβας απο του πλοιου ο πετρος περιεπατησεν επι τα υδατα ελθειν προς τον ιησουν
Matthew 14:29 And he said, Come. And when Peter was come down out of the ship, he walked on the water, to go to Jesus.
Matthew 14:30 βλεπων δε τον ανεμον ισχυρον εφοβηθη και αρξαμενος καταποντιζεσθαι εκραξεν λεγων κυριε σωσον με
Matthew 14:30 But when he saw the wind boisterous, he was afraid; and beginning to sink, he cried, saying, Lord, save me.
Matthew 14:31 ευθεως δε ο ιησους εκτεινας την χειρα επελαβετο αυτου και λεγει αυτω ολιγοπιστε εις τι εδιστασας
Matthew 14:31 And immediately Jesus stretched forth his hand, and caught him, and said unto him, O thou of little faith, wherefore didst thou doubt?
Matthew 14:32 και εμβαντων αυτων εις το πλοιον εκοπασεν ο ανεμος
Matthew 14:32 And when they were come into the ship, the wind ceased.
Matthew 14:33 οι δε εν τω πλοιω ελθοντες προσεκυνησαν αυτω λεγοντες αληθως θεου υιος ει
Matthew 14:33 Then they that were in the ship came and worshipped him, saying, Of a truth thou art the Son of God.
Matthew 14:34 και διαπερασαντες ηλθον εις την γην γεννησαρετ
Matthew 14:34 And when they were gone over, they came into the land of Gennesaret.
Matthew 14:35 και επιγνοντες αυτον οι ανδρες του τοπου εκεινου απεστειλαν εις ολην την περιχωρον εκεινην και προσηνεγκαν αυτω παντας τους κακως εχοντας
Matthew 14:35 And when the men of that place had knowledge of him, they sent out into all that country round about, and brought unto him all that were diseased;
Matthew 14:36 και παρεκαλουν αυτον ινα μονον αψωνται του κρασπεδου του ιματιου αυτου και οσοι ηψαντο διεσωθησαν
Matthew 14:36 And besought him that they might only touch the hem of his garment: and as many as touched were made perfectly whole.
Matthew 15:1 τοτε προσερχονται τω ιησου οι απο ιεροσολυμων γραμματεις και φαρισαιοι λεγοντες
Matthew 15:1 Then came to Jesus scribes and Pharisees, which were of Jerusalem, saying,
Matthew 15:2 διατι οι μαθηται σου παραβαινουσιν την παραδοσιν των πρεσβυτερων ου γαρ νιπτονται τας χειρας αυτων οταν αρτον εσθιωσιν
Matthew 15:2 Why do thy disciples transgress the tradition of the elders?  for they wash not their hands when they eat bread.
Matthew 15:3 ο δε αποκριθεις ειπεν αυτοις διατι και υμεις παραβαινετε την εντολην του θεου δια την παραδοσιν υμων
Matthew 15:3 But he answered and said unto them, Why do ye also transgress the commandment of God by your tradition?
Matthew 15:4 ο γαρ θεος ενετειλατο λεγων τιμα τον πατερα σου και την μητερα και ο κακολογων πατερα η μητερα θανατω τελευτατω
Matthew 15:4 For God commanded, saying, Honour thy father and mother: and, He that curseth father or mother, let him die the death.
Matthew 15:5 υμεις δε λεγετε ος αν ειπη τω πατρι η τη μητρι δωρον ο εαν εξ εμου ωφεληθης και ου μη τιμηση τον πατερα αυτου η την μητερα αυτου
Matthew 15:5 But ye say, Whosoever shall say to his father or his mother, It is a gift, by whatsoever thou mightest be profited by me;
Matthew 15:6 και ηκυρωσατε την εντολην του θεου δια την παραδοσιν υμων
Matthew 15:6 And honour not his father or his mother, he shall be free.  Thus have ye made the commandment of God of none effect by your tradition.
Matthew 15:7 υποκριται καλως προεφητευσεν περι υμων ησαιας λεγων
Matthew 15:7 Ye hypocrites, well did Esaias prophesy of you, saying,
Matthew 15:8 εγγιζει μοι ο λαος ουτος τω στοματι αυτων και τοις χειλεσιν με τιμα η δε καρδια αυτων πορρω απεχει απ εμου
Matthew 15:8 This people draweth nigh unto me with their mouth, and honoureth me with their lips; but their heart is far from me.
Matthew 15:9 ματην δε σεβονται με διδασκοντες διδασκαλιας ενταλματα ανθρωπων
Matthew 15:9 But in vain they do worship me, teaching for doctrines the commandments of men.
Matthew 15:10 και προσκαλεσαμενος τον οχλον ειπεν αυτοις ακουετε και συνιετε
Matthew 15:10 And he called the multitude, and said unto them, Hear, and understand:
Matthew 15:11 ου το εισερχομενον εις το στομα κοινοι τον ανθρωπον αλλα το εκπορευομενον εκ του στοματος τουτο κοινοι τον ανθρωπον
Matthew 15:11 Not that which goeth into the mouth defileth a man; but that which cometh out of the mouth, this defileth a man.
Matthew 15:12 τοτε προσελθοντες οι μαθηται αυτου ειπον αυτω οιδας οτι οι φαρισαιοι ακουσαντες τον λογον εσκανδαλισθησαν
Matthew 15:12 Then came his disciples, and said unto him, Knowest thou that the Pharisees were offended, after they heard this saying?
Matthew 15:13 ο δε αποκριθεις ειπεν πασα φυτεια ην ουκ εφυτευσεν ο πατηρ μου ο ουρανιος εκριζωθησεται
Matthew 15:13 But he answered and said, Every plant, which my heavenly Father hath not planted, shall be rooted up.
Matthew 15:14 αφετε αυτους οδηγοι εισιν τυφλοι τυφλων τυφλος δε τυφλον εαν οδηγη αμφοτεροι εις βοθυνον πεσουνται
Matthew 15:14 Let them alone: they be blind leaders of the blind. And if the blind lead the blind, both shall fall into the ditch.
Matthew 15:15 αποκριθεις δε ο πετρος ειπεν αυτω φρασον ημιν την παραβολην ταυτην
Matthew 15:15 Then answered Peter and said unto him, Declare unto us this parable.
Matthew 15:16 ο δε ιησους ειπεν ακμην και υμεις ασυνετοι εστε
Matthew 15:16 And Jesus said, Are ye also yet without understanding?
Matthew 15:17 ουπω νοειτε οτι παν το εισπορευομενον εις το στομα εις την κοιλιαν χωρει και εις αφεδρωνα εκβαλλεται
Matthew 15:17 Do not ye yet understand, that whatsoever entereth in at the mouth goeth into the belly, and is cast out into the draught?
Matthew 15:18 τα δε εκπορευομενα εκ του στοματος εκ της καρδιας εξερχεται κακεινα κοινοι τον ανθρωπον
Matthew 15:18 But those things which proceed out of the mouth come forth from the heart; and they defile the man.
Matthew 15:19 εκ γαρ της καρδιας εξερχονται διαλογισμοι πονηροι φονοι μοιχειαι πορνειαι κλοπαι ψευδομαρτυριαι βλασφημιαι
Matthew 15:19 For out of the heart proceed evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witness, blasphemies:
Matthew 15:20 ταυτα εστιν τα κοινουντα τον ανθρωπον το δε ανιπτοις χερσιν φαγειν ου κοινοι τον ανθρωπον
Matthew 15:20 These are the things which defile a man: but to eat with unwashen hands defileth not a man.
Matthew 15:21 και εξελθων εκειθεν ο ιησους ανεχωρησεν εις τα μερη τυρου και σιδωνος
Matthew 15:21 Then Jesus went thence, and departed into the coasts of Tyre and Sidon.
Matthew 15:22 και ιδου γυνη χαναναια απο των οριων εκεινων εξελθουσα εκραυγασεν αυτω λεγουσα ελεησον με κυριε υιε δαβιδ η θυγατηρ μου κακως δαιμονιζεται
Matthew 15:22 And, behold, a woman of Canaan came out of the same coasts, and cried unto him, saying, Have mercy on me, O Lord, thou son of David; my daughter is grievously vexed with a devil.
Matthew 15:23 ο δε ουκ απεκριθη αυτη λογον και προσελθοντες οι μαθηται αυτου ηρωτων αυτον λεγοντες απολυσον αυτην οτι κραζει οπισθεν ημων
Matthew 15:23 But he answered her not a word. And his disciples came and besought him, saying, Send her away; for she crieth after us.
Matthew 15:24 ο δε αποκριθεις ειπεν ουκ απεσταλην ει μη εις τα προβατα τα απολωλοτα οικου ισραηλ
Matthew 15:24 But he answered and said, I am not sent but unto the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
Matthew 15:25 η δε ελθουσα προσεκυνει αυτω λεγουσα κυριε βοηθει μοι
Matthew 15:25 Then came she and worshipped him, saying, Lord, help me.
Matthew 15:26 ο δε αποκριθεις ειπεν ουκ εστιν καλον λαβειν τον αρτον των τεκνων και βαλειν τοις κυναριοις
Matthew 15:26 But he answered and said, It is not meet to take the children's bread, and to cast it to dogs.
Matthew 15:27 η δε ειπεν ναι κυριε και γαρ τα κυναρια εσθιει απο των ψιχιων των πιπτοντων απο της τραπεζης των κυριων αυτων
Matthew 15:27 And she said, Truth, Lord: yet the dogs eat of the crumbs which fall from their masters' table.
Matthew 15:28 τοτε αποκριθεις ο ιησους ειπεν αυτη ω γυναι μεγαλη σου η πιστις γενηθητω σοι ως θελεις και ιαθη η θυγατηρ αυτης απο της ωρας εκεινης
Matthew 15:28 Then Jesus answered and said unto her, O woman, great is thy faith: be it unto thee even as thou wilt. And her daughter was made whole from that very hour.
Matthew 15:29 και μεταβας εκειθεν ο ιησους ηλθεν παρα την θαλασσαν της γαλιλαιας και αναβας εις το ορος εκαθητο εκει
Matthew 15:29 And Jesus departed from thence, and came nigh unto the sea of Galilee; and went up into a mountain, and sat down there.
Matthew 15:30 και προσηλθον αυτω οχλοι πολλοι εχοντες μεθ εαυτων χωλους τυφλους κωφους κυλλους και ετερους πολλους και ερριψαν αυτους παρα τους ποδας του ιησου και εθεραπευσεν αυτους
Matthew 15:30 And great multitudes came unto him, having with them those that were lame, blind, dumb, maimed, and many others, and cast them down at Jesus' feet; and he healed them:
Matthew 15:31 ωστε τους οχλους θαυμασαι βλεποντας κωφους λαλουντας κυλλους υγιεις χωλους περιπατουντας και τυφλους βλεποντας και εδοξασαν τον θεον ισραηλ
Matthew 15:31 Insomuch that the multitude wondered, when they saw the dumb to speak, the maimed to be whole, the lame to walk, and the blind to see: and they glorified the God of Israel.
Matthew 15:32 ο δε ιησους προσκαλεσαμενος τους μαθητας αυτου ειπεν σπλαγχνιζομαι επι τον οχλον οτι ηδη ημερας τρεις προσμενουσιν μοι και ουκ εχουσιν τι φαγωσιν και απολυσαι αυτους νηστεις ου θελω μηποτε εκλυθωσιν εν τη οδω
Matthew 15:32 Then Jesus called his disciples unto him, and said, I have compassion on the multitude, because they continue with me now three days, and have nothing to eat: and I will not send them away fasting, lest they faint in the way.
Matthew 15:33 και λεγουσιν αυτω οι μαθηται αυτου ποθεν ημιν εν ερημια αρτοι τοσουτοι ωστε χορτασαι οχλον τοσουτον
Matthew 15:33 And his disciples say unto him, Whence should we have so much bread in the wilderness, as to fill so great a multitude?
Matthew 15:34 και λεγει αυτοις ο ιησους ποσους αρτους εχετε οι δε ειπον επτα και ολιγα ιχθυδια
Matthew 15:34 And Jesus saith unto them, How many loaves have ye? And they said, Seven, and a few little fishes.
Matthew 15:35 και εκελευσεν τοις οχλοις αναπεσειν επι την γην
Matthew 15:35 And he commanded the multitude to sit down on the ground.
Matthew 15:36 και λαβων τους επτα αρτους και τους ιχθυας ευχαριστησας εκλασεν και εδωκεν τοις μαθηταις αυτου οι δε μαθηται τω οχλω
Matthew 15:36 And he took the seven loaves and the fishes, and gave thanks, and brake them, and gave to his disciples, and the disciples to the multitude.
Matthew 15:37 και εφαγον παντες και εχορτασθησαν και ηραν το περισσευον των κλασματων επτα σπυριδας πληρεις
Matthew 15:37 And they did all eat, and were filled: and they took up of the broken meat that was left seven baskets full.
Matthew 15:38 οι δε εσθιοντες ησαν τετρακισχιλιοι ανδρες χωρις γυναικων και παιδιων
Matthew 15:38 And they that did eat were four thousand men, beside women and children.
Matthew 15:39 και απολυσας τους οχλους ενεβη εις το πλοιον και ηλθεν εις τα ορια μαγδαλα
Matthew 15:39 And he sent away the multitude, and took ship, and came into the coasts of Magdala.
Matthew 16:1 και προσελθοντες οι φαρισαιοι και σαδδουκαιοι πειραζοντες επηρωτησαν αυτον σημειον εκ του ουρανου επιδειξαι αυτοις
Matthew 16:1 The Pharisees also with the Sadducees came, and tempting desired him that he would shew them a sign from heaven.
Matthew 16:2 ο δε αποκριθεις ειπεν αυτοις οψιας γενομενης λεγετε ευδια πυρραζει γαρ ο ουρανος
Matthew 16:2 He answered and said unto them, When it is evening, ye say, It will be fair weather: for the sky is red.
Matthew 16:3 και πρωι σημερον χειμων πυρραζει γαρ στυγναζων ο ουρανος υποκριται το μεν προσωπον του ουρανου γινωσκετε διακρινειν τα δε σημεια των καιρων ου δυνασθε
Matthew 16:3 And in the morning, It will be foul weather to day: for the sky is red and lowering. O ye hypocrites, ye can discern the face of the sky; but can ye not discern the signs of the times?
Matthew 16:4 γενεα πονηρα και μοιχαλις σημειον επιζητει και σημειον ου δοθησεται αυτη ει μη το σημειον ιωνα του προφητου και καταλιπων αυτους απηλθεν
Matthew 16:4 A wicked and adulterous generation seeketh after a sign; and there shall no sign be given unto it, but the sign of the prophet Jonas. And he left them, and departed.
Matthew 16:5 και ελθοντες οι μαθηται αυτου εις το περαν επελαθοντο αρτους λαβειν
Matthew 16:5 And when his disciples were come to the other side, they had forgotten to take bread.
Matthew 16:6 ο δε ιησους ειπεν αυτοις ορατε και προσεχετε απο της ζυμης των φαρισαιων και σαδδουκαιων
Matthew 16:6 Then Jesus said unto them, Take heed and beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and of the Sadducees.
Matthew 16:7 οι δε διελογιζοντο εν εαυτοις λεγοντες οτι αρτους ουκ ελαβομεν
Matthew 16:7 And they reasoned among themselves, saying, It is because we have taken no bread.
Matthew 16:8 γνους δε ο ιησους ειπεν αυτοις τι διαλογιζεσθε εν εαυτοις ολιγοπιστοι οτι αρτους ουκ ελαβετε
Matthew 16:8 Which when Jesus perceived, he said unto them, O ye of little faith, why reason ye among yourselves, because ye have brought no bread?
Matthew 16:9 ουπω νοειτε ουδε μνημονευετε τους πεντε αρτους των πεντακισχιλιων και ποσους κοφινους ελαβετε
Matthew 16:9 Do ye not yet understand, neither remember the five loaves of the five thousand, and how many baskets ye took up?
Matthew 16:10 ουδε τους επτα αρτους των τετρακισχιλιων και ποσας σπυριδας ελαβετε
Matthew 16:10 Neither the seven loaves of the four thousand, and how many baskets ye took up?
Matthew 16:11 πως ου νοειτε οτι ου περι αρτου ειπον υμιν προσεχειν απο της ζυμης των φαρισαιων και σαδδουκαιων
Matthew 16:11 How is it that ye do not understand that I spake it not to you concerning bread, that ye should beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and of the Sadducees?
Matthew 16:12 τοτε συνηκαν οτι ουκ ειπεν προσεχειν απο της ζυμης του αρτου αλλ απο της διδαχης των φαρισαιων και σαδδουκαιων
Matthew 16:12 Then understood they how that he bade them not beware of the leaven of bread, but of the doctrine of the Pharisees and of the Sadducees.
Matthew 16:13 ελθων δε ο ιησους εις τα μερη καισαρειας της φιλιππου ηρωτα τους μαθητας αυτου λεγων τινα με λεγουσιν οι ανθρωποι ειναι τον υιον του ανθρωπου
Matthew 16:13 When Jesus came into the coasts of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, saying, Whom do men say that I the Son of man am?
Matthew 16:14 οι δε ειπον οι μεν ιωαννην τον βαπτιστην αλλοι δε ηλιαν ετεροι δε ιερεμιαν η ενα των προφητων
Matthew 16:14 And they said, Some say that thou art John the Baptist: some, Elias; and others, Jeremias, or one of the prophets.
Matthew 16:15 λεγει αυτοις υμεις δε τινα με λεγετε ειναι
Matthew 16:15 He saith unto them, But whom say ye that I am?
Matthew 16:16 αποκριθεις δε σιμων πετρος ειπεν συ ει ο χριστος ο υιος του θεου του ζωντος
Matthew 16:16 And Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God.
Matthew 16:17 και αποκριθεις ο ιησους ειπεν αυτω μακαριος ει σιμων βαρ ιωνα οτι σαρξ και αιμα ουκ απεκαλυψεν σοι αλλ ο πατηρ μου ο εν τοις ουρανοις
Matthew 16:17 And Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona: for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven.
Matthew 16:18 καγω δε σοι λεγω οτι συ ει πετρος και επι ταυτη τη πετρα οικοδομησω μου την εκκλησιαν και πυλαι αδου ου κατισχυσουσιν αυτης
Matthew 16:18 And I say also unto thee, That thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it.
Matthew 16:19 και δωσω σοι τας κλεις της βασιλειας των ουρανων και ο εαν δησης επι της γης εσται δεδεμενον εν τοις ουρανοις και ο εαν λυσης επι της γης εσται λελυμενον εν τοις ουρανοις
Matthew 16:19 And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven: and whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven: and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven.
Matthew 16:20 τοτε διεστειλατο τοις μαθηταις αυτου ινα μηδενι ειπωσιν οτι αυτος εστιν ιησους ο χριστος
Matthew 16:20 Then charged he his disciples that they should tell no man that he was Jesus the Christ.
Matthew 16:21 απο τοτε ηρξατο ο ιησους δεικνυειν τοις μαθηταις αυτου οτι δει αυτον απελθειν εις ιεροσολυμα και πολλα παθειν απο των πρεσβυτερων και αρχιερεων και γραμματεων και αποκτανθηναι και τη τριτη ημερα εγερθηναι
Matthew 16:21 From that time forth began Jesus to shew unto his disciples, how that he must go unto Jerusalem, and suffer many things of the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and be raised again the third day.
Matthew 16:22 και προσλαβομενος αυτον ο πετρος ηρξατο επιτιμαν αυτω λεγων ιλεως σοι κυριε ου μη εσται σοι τουτο
Matthew 16:22 Then Peter took him, and began to rebuke him, saying, Be it far from thee, Lord: this shall not be unto thee.
Matthew 16:23 ο δε στραφεις ειπεν τω πετρω υπαγε οπισω μου σατανα σκανδαλον μου ει οτι ου φρονεις τα του θεου αλλα τα των ανθρωπων
Matthew 16:23 But he turned, and said unto Peter, Get thee behind me, Satan: thou art an offence unto me: for thou savourest not the things that be of God, but those that be of men.
Matthew 16:24 τοτε ο ιησους ειπεν τοις μαθηταις αυτου ει τις θελει οπισω μου ελθειν απαρνησασθω εαυτον και αρατω τον σταυρον αυτου και ακολουθειτω μοι
Matthew 16:24 Then said Jesus unto his disciples, If any man will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me.
Matthew 16:25 ος γαρ αν θελη την ψυχην αυτου σωσαι απολεσει αυτην ος δ αν απολεση την ψυχην αυτου ενεκεν εμου ευρησει αυτην
Matthew 16:25 For whosoever will save his life shall lose it: and whosoever will lose his life for my sake shall find it.
Matthew 16:26 τι γαρ ωφελειται ανθρωπος εαν τον κοσμον ολον κερδηση την δε ψυχην αυτου ζημιωθη η τι δωσει ανθρωπος ανταλλαγμα της ψυχης αυτου
Matthew 16:26 For what is a man profited, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul? or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul?
Matthew 16:27 μελλει γαρ ο υιος του ανθρωπου ερχεσθαι εν τη δοξη του πατρος αυτου μετα των αγγελων αυτου και τοτε αποδωσει εκαστω κατα την πραξιν αυτου
Matthew 16:27 For the Son of man shall come in the glory of his Father with his angels; and then he shall reward every man according to his works.
Matthew 16:28 αμην λεγω υμιν εισιν τινες των ωδε εστηκοτων οιτινες ου μη γευσωνται θανατου εως αν ιδωσιν τον υιον του ανθρωπου ερχομενον εν τη βασιλεια αυτου
Matthew 16:28 Verily I say unto you, There be some standing here, which shall not taste of death, till they see the Son of man coming in his kingdom.
Matthew 17:1 και μεθ ημερας εξ παραλαμβανει ο ιησους τον πετρον και ιακωβον και ιωαννην τον αδελφον αυτου και αναφερει αυτους εις ορος υψηλον κατ ιδιαν
Matthew 17:1 And after six days Jesus taketh Peter, James, and John his brother, and bringeth them up into an high mountain apart,
Matthew 17:2 και μετεμορφωθη εμπροσθεν αυτων και ελαμψεν το προσωπον αυτου ως ο ηλιος τα δε ιματια αυτου εγενετο λευκα ως το φως
Matthew 17:2 And was transfigured before them: and his face did shine as the sun, and his raiment was white as the light.
Matthew 17:3 και ιδου ωφθησαν αυτοις μωσης και ηλιας μετ αυτου συλλαλουντες
Matthew 17:3 And, behold, there appeared unto them Moses and Elias talking with him.
Matthew 17:4 αποκριθεις δε ο πετρος ειπεν τω ιησου κυριε καλον εστιν ημας ωδε ειναι ει θελεις ποιησωμεν ωδε τρεις σκηνας σοι μιαν και μωση μιαν και μιαν ηλια
Matthew 17:4 Then answered Peter, and said unto Jesus, Lord, it is good for us to be here: if thou wilt, let us make here three tabernacles; one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elias.
Matthew 17:5 ετι αυτου λαλουντος ιδου νεφελη φωτεινη επεσκιασεν αυτους και ιδου φωνη εκ της νεφελης λεγουσα ουτος εστιν ο υιος μου ο αγαπητος εν ω ευδοκησα αυτου ακουετε
Matthew 17:5 While he yet spake, behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them: and behold a voice out of the cloud, which said, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased; hear ye him.
Matthew 17:6 και ακουσαντες οι μαθηται επεσον επι προσωπον αυτων και εφοβηθησαν σφοδρα
Matthew 17:6 And when the disciples heard it, they fell on their face, and were sore afraid.
Matthew 17:7 και προσελθων ο ιησους ηψατο αυτων και ειπεν εγερθητε και μη φοβεισθε
Matthew 17:7 And Jesus came and touched them, and said, Arise, and be not afraid.
Matthew 17:8 επαραντες δε τους οφθαλμους αυτων ουδενα ειδον ει μη τον ιησουν μονον
Matthew 17:8 And when they had lifted up their eyes, they saw no man, save Jesus only.
Matthew 17:9 και καταβαινοντων αυτων απο του ορους ενετειλατο αυτοις ο ιησους λεγων μηδενι ειπητε το οραμα εως ου ο υιος του ανθρωπου εκ νεκρων αναστη
Matthew 17:9 And as they came down from the mountain, Jesus charged them, saying, Tell the vision to no man, until the Son of man be risen again from the dead.
Matthew 17:10 και επηρωτησαν αυτον οι μαθηται αυτου λεγοντες τι ουν οι γραμματεις λεγουσιν οτι ηλιαν δει ελθειν πρωτον
Matthew 17:10 And his disciples asked him, saying, Why then say the scribes that Elias must first come?
Matthew 17:11 ο δε ιησους αποκριθεις ειπεν αυτοις ηλιας μεν ερχεται πρωτον και αποκαταστησει παντα
Matthew 17:11 And Jesus answered and said unto them, Elias truly shall first come, and restore all things.
Matthew 17:12 λεγω δε υμιν οτι ηλιας ηδη ηλθεν και ουκ επεγνωσαν αυτον αλλ εποιησαν εν αυτω οσα ηθελησαν ουτως και ο υιος του ανθρωπου μελλει πασχειν υπ αυτων
Matthew 17:12 But I say unto you, That Elias is come already, and they knew him not, but have done unto him whatsoever they listed.  Likewise shall also the Son of man suffer of them.
Matthew 17:13 τοτε συνηκαν οι μαθηται οτι περι ιωαννου του βαπτιστου ειπεν αυτοις
Matthew 17:13 Then the disciples understood that he spake unto them of John the Baptist.
Matthew 17:14 και ελθοντων αυτων προς τον οχλον προσηλθεν αυτω ανθρωπος γονυπετων αυτω
Matthew 17:14 And when they were come to the multitude, there came to him a certain man, kneeling down to him, and saying,
Matthew 17:15 και λεγων κυριε ελεησον μου τον υιον οτι σεληνιαζεται και κακως πασχει πολλακις γαρ πιπτει εις το πυρ και πολλακις εις το υδωρ
Matthew 17:15 Lord, have mercy on my son: for he is lunatick, and sore vexed: for ofttimes he falleth into the fire, and oft into the water.
Matthew 17:16 και προσηνεγκα αυτον τοις μαθηταις σου και ουκ ηδυνηθησαν αυτον θεραπευσαι
Matthew 17:16 And I brought him to thy disciples, and they could not cure him.
Matthew 17:17 αποκριθεις δε ο ιησους ειπεν ω γενεα απιστος και διεστραμμενη εως ποτε εσομαι μεθ υμων εως ποτε ανεξομαι υμων φερετε μοι αυτον ωδε
Matthew 17:17 Then Jesus answered and said, O faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you? how long shall I suffer you? bring him hither to me.
Matthew 17:18 και επετιμησεν αυτω ο ιησους και εξηλθεν απ αυτου το δαιμονιον και εθεραπευθη ο παις απο της ωρας εκεινης
Matthew 17:18 And Jesus rebuked the devil; and he departed out of him: and the child was cured from that very hour.
Matthew 17:19 τοτε προσελθοντες οι μαθηται τω ιησου κατ ιδιαν ειπον διατι ημεις ουκ ηδυνηθημεν εκβαλειν αυτο
Matthew 17:19 Then came the disciples to Jesus apart, and said, Why could not we cast him out?
Matthew 17:20 ο δε ιησους ειπεν αυτοις δια την απιστιαν υμων αμην γαρ λεγω υμιν εαν εχητε πιστιν ως κοκκον σιναπεως ερειτε τω ορει τουτω μεταβηθι εντευθεν εκει και μεταβησεται και ουδεν αδυνατησει υμιν
Matthew 17:20 And Jesus said unto them, Because of your unbelief: for verily I say unto you, If ye have faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye shall say unto this mountain, Remove hence to yonder place; and it shall remove; and nothing shall be impossible unto you.
Matthew 17:21 τουτο δε το γενος ουκ εκπορευεται ει μη εν προσευχη και νηστεια
Matthew 17:21 Howbeit this kind goeth not out but by prayer and fasting.
Matthew 17:22 αναστρεφομενων δε αυτων εν τη γαλιλαια ειπεν αυτοις ο ιησους μελλει ο υιος του ανθρωπου παραδιδοσθαι εις χειρας ανθρωπων
Matthew 17:22 And while they abode in Galilee, Jesus said unto them, The Son of man shall be betrayed into the hands of men:
Matthew 17:23 και αποκτενουσιν αυτον και τη τριτη ημερα εγερθησεται και ελυπηθησαν σφοδρα
Matthew 17:23 And they shall kill him, and the third day he shall be raised again. And they were exceeding sorry.
Matthew 17:24 ελθοντων δε αυτων εις καπερναουμ προσηλθον οι τα διδραχμα λαμβανοντες τω πετρω και ειπον ο διδασκαλος υμων ου τελει τα διδραχμα
Matthew 17:24 And when they were come to Capernaum, they that received tribute money came to Peter, and said, Doth not your master pay tribute?
Matthew 17:25 λεγει ναι και οτε εισηλθεν εις την οικιαν προεφθασεν αυτον ο ιησους λεγων τι σοι δοκει σιμων οι βασιλεις της γης απο τινων λαμβανουσιν τελη η κηνσον απο των υιων αυτων η απο των αλλοτριων
Matthew 17:25 He saith, Yes. And when he was come into the house, Jesus prevented him, saying, What thinkest thou, Simon? of whom do the kings of the earth take custom or tribute? of their own children, or of strangers?
Matthew 17:26 λεγει αυτω ο πετρος απο των αλλοτριων εφη αυτω ο ιησους αραγε ελευθεροι εισιν οι υιοι
Matthew 17:26 Peter saith unto him, Of strangers. Jesus saith unto him, Then are the children free.
Matthew 17:27 ινα δε μη σκανδαλισωμεν αυτους πορευθεις εις την θαλασσαν βαλε αγκιστρον και τον αναβαντα πρωτον ιχθυν αρον και ανοιξας το στομα αυτου ευρησεις στατηρα εκεινον λαβων δος αυτοις αντι εμου και σου
Matthew 17:27 Notwithstanding, lest we should offend them, go thou to the sea, and cast an hook, and take up the fish that first cometh up; and when thou hast opened his mouth, thou shalt find a piece of money: that take, and give unto them for me and thee.
Matthew 18:1 εν εκεινη τη ωρα προσηλθον οι μαθηται τω ιησου λεγοντες τις αρα μειζων εστιν εν τη βασιλεια των ουρανων
Matthew 18:1 At the same time came the disciples unto Jesus, saying, Who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven?
Matthew 18:2 και προσκαλεσαμενος ο ιησους παιδιον εστησεν αυτο εν μεσω αυτων
Matthew 18:2 And Jesus called a little child unto him, and set him in the midst of them,
Matthew 18:3 και ειπεν αμην λεγω υμιν εαν μη στραφητε και γενησθε ως τα παιδια ου μη εισελθητε εις την βασιλειαν των ουρανων
Matthew 18:3 And said, Verily I say unto you, Except ye be converted, and become as little children, ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven.
Matthew 18:4 οστις ουν ταπεινωση εαυτον ως το παιδιον τουτο ουτος εστιν ο μειζων εν τη βασιλεια των ουρανων
Matthew 18:4 Whosoever therefore shall humble himself as this little child, the same is greatest in the kingdom of heaven.
Matthew 18:5 και ος εαν δεξηται παιδιον τοιουτον εν επι τω ονοματι μου εμε δεχεται
Matthew 18:5 And whoso shall receive one such little child in my name receiveth me.
Matthew 18:6 ος δ αν σκανδαλιση ενα των μικρων τουτων των πιστευοντων εις εμε συμφερει αυτω ινα κρεμασθη μυλος ονικος επι τον τραχηλον αυτου και καταποντισθη εν τω πελαγει της θαλασσης
Matthew 18:6 But whoso shall offend one of these little ones which believe in me, it were better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck, and that he were drowned in the depth of the sea.
Matthew 18:7 ουαι τω κοσμω απο των σκανδαλων αναγκη γαρ εστιν ελθειν τα σκανδαλα πλην ουαι τω ανθρωπω εκεινω δι ου το σκανδαλον ερχεται
Matthew 18:7 Woe unto the world because of offences! for it must needs be that offences come; but woe to that man by whom the offence cometh!
Matthew 18:8 ει δε η χειρ σου η ο πους σου σκανδαλιζει σε εκκοψον αυτα και βαλε απο σου καλον σοι εστιν εισελθειν εις την ζωην χωλον η κυλλον η δυο χειρας η δυο ποδας εχοντα βληθηναι εις το πυρ το αιωνιον
Matthew 18:8 Wherefore if thy hand or thy foot offend thee, cut them off, and cast them from thee: it is better for thee to enter into life halt or maimed, rather than having two hands or two feet to be cast into everlasting fire.
Matthew 18:9 και ει ο οφθαλμος σου σκανδαλιζει σε εξελε αυτον και βαλε απο σου καλον σοι εστιν μονοφθαλμον εις την ζωην εισελθειν η δυο οφθαλμους εχοντα βληθηναι εις την γεενναν του πυρος
Matthew 18:9 And if thine eye offend thee, pluck it out, and cast it from thee: it is better for thee to enter into life with one eye, rather than having two eyes to be cast into hell fire.
Matthew 18:10 ορατε μη καταφρονησητε ενος των μικρων τουτων λεγω γαρ υμιν οτι οι αγγελοι αυτων εν ουρανοις δια παντος βλεπουσιν το προσωπον του πατρος μου του εν ουρανοις
Matthew 18:10 Take heed that ye despise not one of these little ones; for I say unto you, That in heaven their angels do always behold the face of my Father which is in heaven.
Matthew 18:11 ηλθεν γαρ ο υιος του ανθρωπου σωσαι το απολωλος
Matthew 18:11 For the Son of man is come to save that which was lost.
Matthew 18:12 τι υμιν δοκει εαν γενηται τινι ανθρωπω εκατον προβατα και πλανηθη εν εξ αυτων ουχι αφεις τα εννενηκονταεννεα επι τα ορη πορευθεις ζητει το πλανωμενον
Matthew 18:12 How think ye? if a man have an hundred sheep, and one of them be gone astray, doth he not leave the ninety and nine, and goeth into the mountains, and seeketh that which is gone astray?
Matthew 18:13 και εαν γενηται ευρειν αυτο αμην λεγω υμιν οτι χαιρει επ αυτω μαλλον η επι τοις εννενηκονταεννεα τοις μη πεπλανημενοις
Matthew 18:13 And if so be that he find it, verily I say unto you, he rejoiceth more of that sheep, than of the ninety and nine which went not astray.
Matthew 18:14 ουτως ουκ εστιν θελημα εμπροσθεν του πατρος υμων του εν ουρανοις ινα αποληται εις των μικρων τουτων
Matthew 18:14 Even so it is not the will of your Father which is in heaven, that one of these little ones should perish.
Matthew 18:15 εαν δε αμαρτηση εις σε ο αδελφος σου υπαγε και ελεγξον αυτον μεταξυ σου και αυτου μονου εαν σου ακουση εκερδησας τον αδελφον σου
Matthew 18:15 Moreover if thy brother shall trespass against thee, go and tell him his fault between thee and him alone: if he shall hear thee, thou hast gained thy brother.
Matthew 18:16 εαν δε μη ακουση παραλαβε μετα σου ετι ενα η δυο ινα επι στοματος δυο μαρτυρων η τριων σταθη παν ρημα
Matthew 18:16 But if he will not hear thee, then take with thee one or two more, that in the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established.
Matthew 18:17 εαν δε παρακουση αυτων ειπε τη εκκλησια εαν δε και της εκκλησιας παρακουση εστω σοι ωσπερ ο εθνικος και ο τελωνης
Matthew 18:17 And if he shall neglect to hear them, tell it unto the church: but if he neglect to hear the church, let him be unto thee as an heathen man and a publican.
Matthew 18:18 αμην λεγω υμιν οσα εαν δησητε επι της γης εσται δεδεμενα εν τω ουρανω και οσα εαν λυσητε επι της γης εσται λελυμενα εν τω ουρανω
Matthew 18:18 Verily I say unto you, Whatsoever ye shall bind on earth shall be bound in heaven: and whatsoever ye shall loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven.
Matthew 18:19 παλιν λεγω υμιν οτι εαν δυο υμων συμφωνησωσιν επι της γης περι παντος πραγματος ου εαν αιτησωνται γενησεται αυτοις παρα του πατρος μου του εν ουρανοις
Matthew 18:19 Again I say unto you, That if two of you shall agree on earth as touching any thing that they shall ask, it shall be done for them of my Father which is in heaven.
Matthew 18:20 ου γαρ εισιν δυο η τρεις συνηγμενοι εις το εμον ονομα εκει ειμι εν μεσω αυτων
Matthew 18:20 For where two or three are gathered together in my name, there am I in the midst of them.
Matthew 18:21 τοτε προσελθων αυτω ο πετρος ειπεν κυριε ποσακις αμαρτησει εις εμε ο αδελφος μου και αφησω αυτω εως επτακις
Matthew 18:21 Then came Peter to him, and said, Lord, how oft shall my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? till seven times?
Matthew 18:22 λεγει αυτω ο ιησους ου λεγω σοι εως επτακις αλλ εως εβδομηκοντακις επτα
Matthew 18:22 Jesus saith unto him, I say not unto thee, Until seven times: but, Until seventy times seven.
Matthew 18:23 δια τουτο ωμοιωθη η βασιλεια των ουρανων ανθρωπω βασιλει ος ηθελησεν συναραι λογον μετα των δουλων αυτου
Matthew 18:23 Therefore is the kingdom of heaven likened unto a certain king, which would take account of his servants.
Matthew 18:24 αρξαμενου δε αυτου συναιρειν προσηνεχθη αυτω εις οφειλετης μυριων ταλαντων
Matthew 18:24 And when he had begun to reckon, one was brought unto him, which owed him ten thousand talents.
Matthew 18:25 μη εχοντος δε αυτου αποδουναι εκελευσεν αυτον ο κυριος αυτου πραθηναι και την γυναικα αυτου και τα τεκνα και παντα οσα ειχεν και αποδοθηναι
Matthew 18:25 But forasmuch as he had not to pay, his lord commanded him to be sold, and his wife, and children, and all that he had, and payment to be made.
Matthew 18:26 πεσων ουν ο δουλος προσεκυνει αυτω λεγων κυριε μακροθυμησον επ εμοι και παντα σοι αποδωσω
Matthew 18:26 The servant therefore fell down, and worshipped him, saying, Lord, have patience with me, and I will pay thee all.
Matthew 18:27 σπλαγχνισθεις δε ο κυριος του δουλου εκεινου απελυσεν αυτον και το δανειον αφηκεν αυτω
Matthew 18:27 Then the lord of that servant was moved with compassion, and loosed him, and forgave him the debt.
Matthew 18:28 εξελθων δε ο δουλος εκεινος ευρεν ενα των συνδουλων αυτου ος ωφειλεν αυτω εκατον δηναρια και κρατησας αυτον επνιγεν λεγων αποδος μοι ο τι οφειλεις
Matthew 18:28 But the same servant went out, and found one of his fellowservants, which owed him an hundred pence: and he laid hands on him, and took him by the throat, saying, Pay me that thou owest.
Matthew 18:29 πεσων ουν ο συνδουλος αυτου εις τους ποδας αυτου παρεκαλει αυτον λεγων μακροθυμησον επ εμοι και παντα αποδωσω σοι
Matthew 18:29 And his fellowservant fell down at his feet, and besought him, saying, Have patience with me, and I will pay thee all.
Matthew 18:30 ο δε ουκ ηθελεν αλλα απελθων εβαλεν αυτον εις φυλακην εως ου αποδω το οφειλομενον
Matthew 18:30 And he would not: but went and cast him into prison, till he should pay the debt.
Matthew 18:31 ιδοντες δε οι συνδουλοι αυτου τα γενομενα ελυπηθησαν σφοδρα και ελθοντες διεσαφησαν τω κυριω αυτων παντα τα γενομενα
Matthew 18:31 So when his fellowservants saw what was done, they were very sorry, and came and told unto their lord all that was done.
Matthew 18:32 τοτε προσκαλεσαμενος αυτον ο κυριος αυτου λεγει αυτω δουλε πονηρε πασαν την οφειλην εκεινην αφηκα σοι επει παρεκαλεσας με
Matthew 18:32 Then his lord, after that he had called him, said unto him, O thou wicked servant, I forgave thee all that debt, because thou desiredst me:
Matthew 18:33 ουκ εδει και σε ελεησαι τον συνδουλον σου ως και εγω σε ηλεησα
Matthew 18:33 Shouldest not thou also have had compassion on thy fellowservant, even as I had pity on thee?
Matthew 18:34 και οργισθεις ο κυριος αυτου παρεδωκεν αυτον τοις βασανισταις εως ου αποδω παν το οφειλομενον αυτω
Matthew 18:34 And his lord was wroth, and delivered him to the tormentors, till he should pay all that was due unto him.
Matthew 18:35 ουτως και ο πατηρ μου ο επουρανιος ποιησει υμιν εαν μη αφητε εκαστος τω αδελφω αυτου απο των καρδιων υμων τα παραπτωματα αυτων
Matthew 18:35 So likewise shall my heavenly Father do also unto you, if ye from your hearts forgive not every one his brother their trespasses.
Matthew 19:1 και εγενετο οτε ετελεσεν ο ιησους τους λογους τουτους μετηρεν απο της γαλιλαιας και ηλθεν εις τα ορια της ιουδαιας περαν του ιορδανου
Matthew 19:1 And it came to pass, that when Jesus had finished these sayings, he departed from Galilee, and came into the coasts of Judaea beyond Jordan;
Matthew 19:2 και ηκολουθησαν αυτω οχλοι πολλοι και εθεραπευσεν αυτους εκει
Matthew 19:2 And great multitudes followed him; and he healed them there.
Matthew 19:3 και προσηλθον αυτω οι φαρισαιοι πειραζοντες αυτον και λεγοντες αυτω ει εξεστιν ανθρωπω απολυσαι την γυναικα αυτου κατα πασαν αιτιαν
Matthew 19:3 The Pharisees also came unto him, tempting him, and saying unto him, Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife for every cause?
Matthew 19:4 ο δε αποκριθεις ειπεν αυτοις ουκ ανεγνωτε οτι ο ποιησας απ αρχης αρσεν και θηλυ εποιησεν αυτους
Matthew 19:4 And he answered and said unto them, Have ye not read, that he which made them at the beginning made them male and female,
Matthew 19:5 και ειπεν ενεκεν τουτου καταλειψει ανθρωπος τον πατερα και την μητερα και προσκολληθησεται τη γυναικι αυτου και εσονται οι δυο εις σαρκα μιαν
Matthew 19:5 And said, For this cause shall a man leave father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife: and they twain shall be one flesh?
Matthew 19:6 ωστε ουκετι εισιν δυο αλλα σαρξ μια ο ουν ο θεος συνεζευξεν ανθρωπος μη χωριζετω
Matthew 19:6 Wherefore they are no more twain, but one flesh. What therefore God hath joined together, let not man put asunder.
Matthew 19:7 λεγουσιν αυτω τι ουν μωσης ενετειλατο δουναι βιβλιον αποστασιου και απολυσαι αυτην
Matthew 19:7 They say unto him, Why did Moses then command to give a writing of divorcement, and to put her away?
Matthew 19:8 λεγει αυτοις οτι μωσης προς την σκληροκαρδιαν υμων επετρεψεν υμιν απολυσαι τας γυναικας υμων απ αρχης δε ου γεγονεν ουτως
Matthew 19:8 He saith unto them, Moses because of the hardness of your hearts suffered you to put away your wives: but from the beginning it was not so.
Matthew 19:9 λεγω δε υμιν οτι ος αν απολυση την γυναικα αυτου ει μη επι πορνεια και γαμηση αλλην μοιχαται και ο απολελυμενην γαμησας μοιχαται
Matthew 19:9 And I say unto you, Whosoever shall put away his wife, except it be for fornication, and shall marry another, committeth adultery: and whoso marrieth her which is put away doth commit adultery.
Matthew 19:10 λεγουσιν αυτω οι μαθηται αυτου ει ουτως εστιν η αιτια του ανθρωπου μετα της γυναικος ου συμφερει γαμησαι
Matthew 19:10 His disciples say unto him, If the case of the man be so with his wife, it is not good to marry.
Matthew 19:11 ο δε ειπεν αυτοις ου παντες χωρουσιν τον λογον τουτον αλλ οις δεδοται
Matthew 19:11 But he said unto them, All men cannot receive this saying, save they to whom it is given.
Matthew 19:12 εισιν γαρ ευνουχοι οιτινες εκ κοιλιας μητρος εγεννηθησαν ουτως και εισιν ευνουχοι οιτινες ευνουχισθησαν υπο των ανθρωπων και εισιν ευνουχοι οιτινες ευνουχισαν εαυτους δια την βασιλειαν των ουρανων ο δυναμενος χωρειν χωρειτω
Matthew 19:12 For there are some eunuchs, which were so born from their mother's womb: and there are some eunuchs, which were made eunuchs of men: and there be eunuchs, which have made themselves eunuchs for the kingdom of heaven's sake. He that is able to receive it, let him receive it.
Matthew 19:13 τοτε προσηνεχθη αυτω παιδια ινα τας χειρας επιθη αυτοις και προσευξηται οι δε μαθηται επετιμησαν αυτοις
Matthew 19:13 Then were there brought unto him little children, that he should put his hands on them, and pray: and the disciples rebuked them.
Matthew 19:14 ο δε ιησους ειπεν αφετε τα παιδια και μη κωλυετε αυτα ελθειν προς με των γαρ τοιουτων εστιν η βασιλεια των ουρανων
Matthew 19:14 But Jesus said, Suffer little children, and forbid them not, to come unto me: for of such is the kingdom of heaven.
Matthew 19:15 και επιθεις αυτοις τας χειρας επορευθη εκειθεν
Matthew 19:15 And he laid his hands on them, and departed thence.
Matthew 19:16 και ιδου εις προσελθων ειπεν αυτω διδασκαλε αγαθε τι αγαθον ποιησω ινα εχω ζωην αιωνιον
Matthew 19:16 And, behold, one came and said unto him, Good Master, what good thing shall I do, that I may have eternal life?
Matthew 19:17 ο δε ειπεν αυτω τι με λεγεις αγαθον ουδεις αγαθος ει μη εις ο θεος ει δε θελεις εισελθειν εις την ζωην τηρησον τας εντολας
Matthew 19:17 And he said unto him, Why callest thou me good? there is none good but one, that is, God: but if thou wilt enter into life, keep the commandments.
Matthew 19:18 λεγει αυτω ποιας ο δε ιησους ειπεν το ου φονευσεις ου μοιχευσεις ου κλεψεις ου ψευδομαρτυρησεις
Matthew 19:18 He saith unto him, Which? Jesus said, Thou shalt do no murder, Thou shalt not commit adultery, Thou shalt not steal, Thou shalt not bear false witness,
Matthew 19:19 τιμα τον πατερα σου και την μητερα και αγαπησεις τον πλησιον σου ως σεαυτον
Matthew 19:19 Honour thy father and thy mother: and, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.
Matthew 19:20 λεγει αυτω ο νεανισκος παντα ταυτα εφυλαξαμην εκ νεοτητος μου τι ετι υστερω
Matthew 19:20 The young man saith unto him, All these things have I kept from my youth up: what lack I yet?
Matthew 19:21 εφη αυτω ο ιησους ει θελεις τελειος ειναι υπαγε πωλησον σου τα υπαρχοντα και δος πτωχοις και εξεις θησαυρον εν ουρανω και δευρο ακολουθει μοι
Matthew 19:21 Jesus said unto him, If thou wilt be perfect, go and sell that thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come and follow me.
Matthew 19:22 ακουσας δε ο νεανισκος τον λογον απηλθεν λυπουμενος ην γαρ εχων κτηματα πολλα
Matthew 19:22 But when the young man heard that saying, he went away sorrowful: for he had great possessions.
Matthew 19:23 ο δε ιησους ειπεν τοις μαθηταις αυτου αμην λεγω υμιν οτι δυσκολως πλουσιος εισελευσεται εις την βασιλειαν των ουρανων
Matthew 19:23 Then said Jesus unto his disciples, Verily I say unto you, That a rich man shall hardly enter into the kingdom of heaven.
Matthew 19:24 παλιν δε λεγω υμιν ευκοπωτερον εστιν καμηλον δια τρυπηματος ραφιδος διελθειν η πλουσιον εις την βασιλειαν του θεου εισελθειν
Matthew 19:24 And again I say unto you, It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God.
Matthew 19:25 ακουσαντες δε οι μαθηται αυτου εξεπλησσοντο σφοδρα λεγοντες τις αρα δυναται σωθηναι
Matthew 19:25 When his disciples heard it, they were exceedingly amazed, saying, Who then can be saved?
Matthew 19:26 εμβλεψας δε ο ιησους ειπεν αυτοις παρα ανθρωποις τουτο αδυνατον εστιν παρα δε θεω παντα δυνατα εστιν
Matthew 19:26 But Jesus beheld them, and said unto them, With men this is impossible; but with God all things are possible.
Matthew 19:27 τοτε αποκριθεις ο πετρος ειπεν αυτω ιδου ημεις αφηκαμεν παντα και ηκολουθησαμεν σοι τι αρα εσται ημιν
Matthew 19:27 Then answered Peter and said unto him, Behold, we have forsaken all, and followed thee; what shall we have therefore?
Matthew 19:28 ο δε ιησους ειπεν αυτοις αμην λεγω υμιν οτι υμεις οι ακολουθησαντες μοι εν τη παλιγγενεσια οταν καθιση ο υιος του ανθρωπου επι θρονου δοξης αυτου καθισεσθε και υμεις επι δωδεκα θρονους κρινοντες τας δωδεκα φυλας του ισραηλ
Matthew 19:28 And Jesus said unto them, Verily I say unto you, That ye which have followed me, in the regeneration when the Son of man shall sit in the throne of his glory, ye also shall sit upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel.
Matthew 19:29 και πας ος αφηκεν οικιας η αδελφους η αδελφας η πατερα η μητερα η γυναικα η τεκνα η αγρους ενεκεν του ονοματος μου εκατονταπλασιονα ληψεται και ζωην αιωνιον κληρονομησει
Matthew 19:29 And every one that hath forsaken houses, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, for my name's sake, shall receive an hundredfold, and shall inherit everlasting life.
Matthew 19:30 πολλοι δε εσονται πρωτοι εσχατοι και εσχατοι πρωτοι
Matthew 19:30 But many that are first shall be last; and the last shall be first.
Matthew 20:1 ομοια γαρ εστιν η βασιλεια των ουρανων ανθρωπω οικοδεσποτη οστις εξηλθεν αμα πρωι μισθωσασθαι εργατας εις τον αμπελωνα αυτου
Matthew 20:1 For the kingdom of heaven is like unto a man that is an householder, which went out early in the morning to hire labourers into his vineyard.
Matthew 20:2 συμφωνησας δε μετα των εργατων εκ δηναριου την ημεραν απεστειλεν αυτους εις τον αμπελωνα αυτου
Matthew 20:2 And when he had agreed with the labourers for a penny a day, he sent them into his vineyard.
Matthew 20:3 και εξελθων περι την τριτην ωραν ειδεν αλλους εστωτας εν τη αγορα αργους
Matthew 20:3 And he went out about the third hour, and saw others standing idle in the marketplace,
Matthew 20:4 κακεινοις ειπεν υπαγετε και υμεις εις τον αμπελωνα και ο εαν η δικαιον δωσω υμιν
Matthew 20:4 And said unto them; Go ye also into the vineyard, and whatsoever is right I will give you. And they went their way.
Matthew 20:5 οι δε απηλθον παλιν εξελθων περι εκτην και εννατην ωραν εποιησεν ωσαυτως
Matthew 20:5 Again he went out about the sixth and ninth hour, and did likewise.
Matthew 20:6 περι δε την ενδεκατην ωραν εξελθων ευρεν αλλους εστωτας αργους και λεγει αυτοις τι ωδε εστηκατε ολην την ημεραν αργοι
Matthew 20:6 And about the eleventh hour he went out, and found others standing idle, and saith unto them, Why stand ye here all the day idle?
Matthew 20:7 λεγουσιν αυτω οτι ουδεις ημας εμισθωσατο λεγει αυτοις υπαγετε και υμεις εις τον αμπελωνα και ο εαν η δικαιον ληψεσθε
Matthew 20:7 They say unto him, Because no man hath hired us. He saith unto them, Go ye also into the vineyard; and whatsoever is right, that shall ye receive.
Matthew 20:8 οψιας δε γενομενης λεγει ο κυριος του αμπελωνος τω επιτροπω αυτου καλεσον τους εργατας και αποδος αυτοις τον μισθον αρξαμενος απο των εσχατων εως των πρωτων
Matthew 20:8 So when even was come, the lord of the vineyard saith unto his steward, Call the labourers, and give them their hire, beginning from the last unto the first.
Matthew 20:9 και ελθοντες οι περι την ενδεκατην ωραν ελαβον ανα δηναριον
Matthew 20:9 And when they came that were hired about the eleventh hour, they received every man a penny.
Matthew 20:10 ελθοντες δε οι πρωτοι ενομισαν οτι πλειονα ληψονται και ελαβον και αυτοι ανα δηναριον
Matthew 20:10 But when the first came, they supposed that they should have received more; and they likewise received every man a penny.
Matthew 20:11 λαβοντες δε εγογγυζον κατα του οικοδεσποτου
Matthew 20:11 And when they had received it, they murmured against the goodman of the house,
Matthew 20:12 λεγοντες οτι ουτοι οι εσχατοι μιαν ωραν εποιησαν και ισους ημιν αυτους εποιησας τοις βαστασασιν το βαρος της ημερας και τον καυσωνα
Matthew 20:12 Saying, These last have wrought but one hour, and thou hast made them equal unto us, which have borne the burden and heat of the day.
Matthew 20:13 ο δε αποκριθεις ειπεν ενι αυτων εταιρε ουκ αδικω σε ουχι δηναριου συνεφωνησας μοι
Matthew 20:13 But he answered one of them, and said, Friend, I do thee no wrong: didst not thou agree with me for a penny?
Matthew 20:14 αρον το σον και υπαγε θελω δε τουτω τω εσχατω δουναι ως και σοι
Matthew 20:14 Take that thine is, and go thy way: I will give unto this last, even as unto thee.
Matthew 20:15 η ουκ εξεστιν μοι ποιησαι ο θελω εν τοις εμοις ει ο οφθαλμος σου πονηρος εστιν οτι εγω αγαθος ειμι
Matthew 20:15 Is it not lawful for me to do what I will with mine own? Is thine eye evil, because I am good?
Matthew 20:16 ουτως εσονται οι εσχατοι πρωτοι και οι πρωτοι εσχατοι πολλοι γαρ εισιν κλητοι ολιγοι δε εκλεκτοι
Matthew 20:16 So the last shall be first, and the first last: for many be called, but few chosen.
Matthew 20:17 και αναβαινων ο ιησους εις ιεροσολυμα παρελαβεν τους δωδεκα μαθητας κατ ιδιαν εν τη οδω και ειπεν αυτοις
Matthew 20:17 And Jesus going up to Jerusalem took the twelve disciples apart in the way, and said unto them,
Matthew 20:18 ιδου αναβαινομεν εις ιεροσολυμα και ο υιος του ανθρωπου παραδοθησεται τοις αρχιερευσιν και γραμματευσιν και κατακρινουσιν αυτον θανατω
Matthew 20:18 Behold, we go up to Jerusalem; and the Son of man shall be betrayed unto the chief priests and unto the scribes, and they shall condemn him to death,
Matthew 20:19 και παραδωσουσιν αυτον τοις εθνεσιν εις το εμπαιξαι και μαστιγωσαι και σταυρωσαι και τη τριτη ημερα αναστησεται
Matthew 20:19 And shall deliver him to the Gentiles to mock, and to scourge, and to crucify him: and the third day he shall rise again.
Matthew 20:20 τοτε προσηλθεν αυτω η μητηρ των υιων ζεβεδαιου μετα των υιων αυτης προσκυνουσα και αιτουσα τι παρ αυτου
Matthew 20:20 Then came to him the mother of Zebedees children with her sons, worshipping him, and desiring a certain thing of him.
Matthew 20:21 ο δε ειπεν αυτη τι θελεις λεγει αυτω ειπε ινα καθισωσιν ουτοι οι δυο υιοι μου εις εκ δεξιων σου και εις εξ ευωνυμων εν τη βασιλεια σου
Matthew 20:21 And he said unto her, What wilt thou? She saith unto him, Grant that these my two sons may sit, the one on thy right hand, and the other on the left, in thy kingdom.
Matthew 20:22 αποκριθεις δε ο ιησους ειπεν ουκ οιδατε τι αιτεισθε δυνασθε πιειν το ποτηριον ο εγω μελλω πινειν και το βαπτισμα ο εγω βαπτιζομαι βαπτισθηναι λεγουσιν αυτω δυναμεθα
Matthew 20:22 But Jesus answered and said, Ye know not what ye ask. Are ye able to drink of the cup that I shall drink of, and to be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with? They say unto him, We are able.
Matthew 20:23 και λεγει αυτοις το μεν ποτηριον μου πιεσθε και το βαπτισμα ο εγω βαπτιζομαι βαπτισθησεσθε το δε καθισαι εκ δεξιων μου και εξ ευωνυμων μου ουκ εστιν εμον δουναι αλλ οις ητοιμασται υπο του πατρος μου
Matthew 20:23 And he saith unto them, Ye shall drink indeed of my cup, and be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with: but to sit on my right hand, and on my left, is not mine to give, but it shall be given to them for whom it is prepared of my Father.
Matthew 20:24 και ακουσαντες οι δεκα ηγανακτησαν περι των δυο αδελφων
Matthew 20:24 And when the ten heard it, they were moved with indignation against the two brethren.
Matthew 20:25 ο δε ιησους προσκαλεσαμενος αυτους ειπεν οιδατε οτι οι αρχοντες των εθνων κατακυριευουσιν αυτων και οι μεγαλοι κατεξουσιαζουσιν αυτων
Matthew 20:25 But Jesus called them unto him, and said, Ye know that the princes of the Gentiles exercise dominion over them, and they that are great exercise authority upon them.
Matthew 20:26 ουχ ουτως δε εσται εν υμιν αλλ ος εαν θελη εν υμιν μεγας γενεσθαι εστω υμων διακονος
Matthew 20:26 But it shall not be so among you: but whosoever will be great among you, let him be your minister;
Matthew 20:27 και ος εαν θελη εν υμιν ειναι πρωτος εστω υμων δουλος
Matthew 20:27 And whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant:
Matthew 20:28 ωσπερ ο υιος του ανθρωπου ουκ ηλθεν διακονηθηναι αλλα διακονησαι και δουναι την ψυχην αυτου λυτρον αντι πολλων
Matthew 20:28 Even as the Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many.
Matthew 20:29 και εκπορευομενων αυτων απο ιεριχω ηκολουθησεν αυτω οχλος πολυς
Matthew 20:29 And as they departed from Jericho, a great multitude followed him.
Matthew 20:30 και ιδου δυο τυφλοι καθημενοι παρα την οδον ακουσαντες οτι ιησους παραγει εκραξαν λεγοντες ελεησον ημας κυριε υιος δαβιδ
Matthew 20:30 And, behold, two blind men sitting by the way side, when they heard that Jesus passed by, cried out, saying, Have mercy on us, O Lord, thou son of David.
Matthew 20:31 ο δε οχλος επετιμησεν αυτοις ινα σιωπησωσιν οι δε μειζον εκραζον λεγοντες ελεησον ημας κυριε υιος δαβιδ
Matthew 20:31 And the multitude rebuked them, because they should hold their peace: but they cried the more, saying, Have mercy on us, O Lord, thou son of David.
Matthew 20:32 και στας ο ιησους εφωνησεν αυτους και ειπεν τι θελετε ποιησω υμιν
Matthew 20:32 And Jesus stood still, and called them, and said, What will ye that I shall do unto you?
Matthew 20:33 λεγουσιν αυτω κυριε ινα ανοιχθωσιν ημων οι οφθαλμοι
Matthew 20:33 They say unto him, Lord, that our eyes may be opened.
Matthew 20:34 σπλαγχνισθεις δε ο ιησους ηψατο των οφθαλμων αυτων και ευθεως ανεβλεψαν αυτων οι οφθαλμοι και ηκολουθησαν αυτω
Matthew 20:34 So Jesus had compassion on them, and touched their eyes: and immediately their eyes received sight, and they followed him.
Matthew 21:1 και οτε ηγγισαν εις ιεροσολυμα και ηλθον εις βηθφαγη προς το ορος των ελαιων τοτε ο ιησους απεστειλεν δυο μαθητας
Matthew 21:1 And when they drew nigh unto Jerusalem, and were come to Bethphage, unto the mount of Olives, then sent Jesus two disciples,
Matthew 21:2 λεγων αυτοις πορευθητε εις την κωμην την απεναντι υμων και ευθεως ευρησετε ονον δεδεμενην και πωλον μετ αυτης λυσαντες αγαγετε μοι
Matthew 21:2 Saying unto them, Go into the village over against you, and straightway ye shall find an ass tied, and a colt with her: loose them, and bring them unto me.
Matthew 21:3 και εαν τις υμιν ειπη τι ερειτε οτι ο κυριος αυτων χρειαν εχει ευθεως δε αποστελει αυτους
Matthew 21:3 And if any man say ought unto you, ye shall say, The Lord hath need of them; and straightway he will send them.
Matthew 21:4 τουτο δε ολον γεγονεν ινα πληρωθη το ρηθεν δια του προφητου λεγοντος
Matthew 21:4 All this was done, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophet, saying,
Matthew 21:5 ειπατε τη θυγατρι σιων ιδου ο βασιλευς σου ερχεται σοι πραυς και επιβεβηκως επι ονον και πωλον υιον υποζυγιου
Matthew 21:5 Tell ye the daughter of Sion, Behold, thy King cometh unto thee, meek, and sitting upon an ass, and a colt the foal of an ass.
Matthew 21:6 πορευθεντες δε οι μαθηται και ποιησαντες καθως προσεταξεν αυτοις ο ιησους
Matthew 21:6 And the disciples went, and did as Jesus commanded them,
Matthew 21:7 ηγαγον την ονον και τον πωλον και επεθηκαν επανω αυτων τα ιματια αυτων και επεκαθισεν επανω αυτων
Matthew 21:7 And brought the ass, and the colt, and put on them their clothes, and they set him thereon.
Matthew 21:8 ο δε πλειστος οχλος εστρωσαν εαυτων τα ιματια εν τη οδω αλλοι δε εκοπτον κλαδους απο των δενδρων και εστρωννυον εν τη οδω
Matthew 21:8 And a very great multitude spread their garments in the way; others cut down branches from the trees, and strawed them in the way.
Matthew 21:9 οι δε οχλοι οι προαγοντες και οι ακολουθουντες εκραζον λεγοντες ωσαννα τω υιω δαβιδ ευλογημενος ο ερχομενος εν ονοματι κυριου ωσαννα εν τοις υψιστοις
Matthew 21:9 And the multitudes that went before, and that followed, cried, saying, Hosanna to the son of David: Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord; Hosanna in the highest.
Matthew 21:10 και εισελθοντος αυτου εις ιεροσολυμα εσεισθη πασα η πολις λεγουσα τις εστιν ουτος
Matthew 21:10 And when he was come into Jerusalem, all the city was moved, saying, Who is this?
Matthew 21:11 οι δε οχλοι ελεγον ουτος εστιν ιησους ο προφητης ο απο ναζαρετ της γαλιλαιας
Matthew 21:11 And the multitude said, This is Jesus the prophet of Nazareth of Galilee.
Matthew 21:12 και εισηλθεν ο ιησους εις το ιερον του θεου και εξεβαλεν παντας τους πωλουντας και αγοραζοντας εν τω ιερω και τας τραπεζας των κολλυβιστων κατεστρεψεν και τας καθεδρας των πωλουντων τας περιστερας
Matthew 21:12 And Jesus went into the temple of God, and cast out all them that sold and bought in the temple, and overthrew the tables of the moneychangers, and the seats of them that sold doves,
Matthew 21:13 και λεγει αυτοις γεγραπται ο οικος μου οικος προσευχης κληθησεται υμεις δε αυτον εποιησατε σπηλαιον ληστων
Matthew 21:13 And said unto them, It is written, My house shall be called the house of prayer; but ye have made it a den of thieves.
Matthew 21:14 και προσηλθον αυτω τυφλοι και χωλοι εν τω ιερω και εθεραπευσεν αυτους
Matthew 21:14 And the blind and the lame came to him in the temple; and he healed them.
Matthew 21:15 ιδοντες δε οι αρχιερεις και οι γραμματεις τα θαυμασια α εποιησεν και τους παιδας κραζοντας εν τω ιερω και λεγοντας ωσαννα τω υιω δαβιδ ηγανακτησαν
Matthew 21:15 And when the chief priests and scribes saw the wonderful things that he did, and the children crying in the temple, and saying, Hosanna to the son of David; they were sore displeased,
Matthew 21:16 και ειπον αυτω ακουεις τι ουτοι λεγουσιν ο δε ιησους λεγει αυτοις ναι ουδεποτε ανεγνωτε οτι εκ στοματος νηπιων και θηλαζοντων κατηρτισω αινον
Matthew 21:16 And said unto him, Hearest thou what these say? And Jesus saith unto them, Yea; have ye never read, Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings thou hast perfected praise?
Matthew 21:17 και καταλιπων αυτους εξηλθεν εξω της πολεως εις βηθανιαν και ηυλισθη εκει
Matthew 21:17 And he left them, and went out of the city into Bethany; and he lodged there.
Matthew 21:18 πρωιας δε επαναγων εις την πολιν επεινασεν
Matthew 21:18 Now in the morning as he returned into the city, he hungered.
Matthew 21:19 και ιδων συκην μιαν επι της οδου ηλθεν επ αυτην και ουδεν ευρεν εν αυτη ει μη φυλλα μονον και λεγει αυτη μηκετι εκ σου καρπος γενηται εις τον αιωνα και εξηρανθη παραχρημα η συκη
Matthew 21:19 And when he saw a fig tree in the way, he came to it, and found nothing thereon, but leaves only, and said unto it, Let no fruit grow on thee henceforward for ever. And presently the fig tree withered away.
Matthew 21:20 και ιδοντες οι μαθηται εθαυμασαν λεγοντες πως παραχρημα εξηρανθη η συκη
Matthew 21:20 And when the disciples saw it, they marvelled, saying, How soon is the fig tree withered away!
Matthew 21:21 αποκριθεις δε ο ιησους ειπεν αυτοις αμην λεγω υμιν εαν εχητε πιστιν και μη διακριθητε ου μονον το της συκης ποιησετε αλλα καν τω ορει τουτω ειπητε αρθητι και βληθητι εις την θαλασσαν γενησεται
Matthew 21:21 Jesus answered and said unto them, Verily I say unto you, If ye have faith, and doubt not, ye shall not only do this which is done to the fig tree, but also if ye shall say unto this mountain, Be thou removed, and be thou cast into the sea; it shall be done.
Matthew 21:22 και παντα οσα αν αιτησητε εν τη προσευχη πιστευοντες ληψεσθε
Matthew 21:22 And all things, whatsoever ye shall ask in prayer, believing, ye shall receive.
Matthew 21:23 και ελθοντι αυτω εις το ιερον προσηλθον αυτω διδασκοντι οι αρχιερεις και οι πρεσβυτεροι του λαου λεγοντες εν ποια εξουσια ταυτα ποιεις και τις σοι εδωκεν την εξουσιαν ταυτην
Matthew 21:23 And when he was come into the temple, the chief priests and the elders of the people came unto him as he was teaching, and said, By what authority doest thou these things? and who gave thee this authority?
Matthew 21:24 αποκριθεις δε ο ιησους ειπεν αυτοις ερωτησω υμας καγω λογον ενα ον εαν ειπητε μοι καγω υμιν ερω εν ποια εξουσια ταυτα ποιω
Matthew 21:24 And Jesus answered and said unto them, I also will ask you one thing, which if ye tell me, I in like wise will tell you by what authority I do these things.
Matthew 21:25 το βαπτισμα ιωαννου ποθεν ην εξ ουρανου η εξ ανθρωπων οι δε διελογιζοντο παρ εαυτοις λεγοντες εαν ειπωμεν εξ ουρανου ερει ημιν διατι ουν ουκ επιστευσατε αυτω
Matthew 21:25 The baptism of John, whence was it? from heaven, or of men?  And they reasoned with themselves, saying, If we shall say, From heaven; he will say unto us, Why did ye not then believe him?
Matthew 21:26 εαν δε ειπωμεν εξ ανθρωπων φοβουμεθα τον οχλον παντες γαρ εχουσιν τον ιωαννην ως προφητην
Matthew 21:26 But if we shall say, Of men; we fear the people; for all hold John as a prophet.
Matthew 21:27 και αποκριθεντες τω ιησου ειπον ουκ οιδαμεν εφη αυτοις και αυτος ουδε εγω λεγω υμιν εν ποια εξουσια ταυτα ποιω
Matthew 21:27 And they answered Jesus, and said, We cannot tell. And he said unto them, Neither tell I you by what authority I do these things.
Matthew 21:28 τι δε υμιν δοκει ανθρωπος ειχεν τεκνα δυο και προσελθων τω πρωτω ειπεν τεκνον υπαγε σημερον εργαζου εν τω αμπελωνι μου
Matthew 21:28 But what think ye? A certain man had two sons; and he came to the first, and said, Son, go work to day in my vineyard.
Matthew 21:29 ο δε αποκριθεις ειπεν ου θελω υστερον δε μεταμεληθεις απηλθεν
Matthew 21:29 He answered and said, I will not: but afterward he repented, and went.
Matthew 21:30 και προσελθων τω δευτερω ειπεν ωσαυτως ο δε αποκριθεις ειπεν εγω κυριε και ουκ απηλθεν
Matthew 21:30 And he came to the second, and said likewise. And he answered and said, I go, sir: and went not.
Matthew 21:31 τις εκ των δυο εποιησεν το θελημα του πατρος λεγουσιν αυτω ο πρωτος λεγει αυτοις ο ιησους αμην λεγω υμιν οτι οι τελωναι και αι πορναι προαγουσιν υμας εις την βασιλειαν του θεου
Matthew 21:31 Whether of them twain did the will of his father? They say unto him, The first. Jesus saith unto them, Verily I say unto you, That the publicans and the harlots go into the kingdom of God before you.
Matthew 21:32 ηλθεν γαρ προς υμας ιωαννης εν οδω δικαιοσυνης και ουκ επιστευσατε αυτω οι δε τελωναι και αι πορναι επιστευσαν αυτω υμεις δε ιδοντες ου μετεμεληθητε υστερον του πιστευσαι αυτω
Matthew 21:32 For John came unto you in the way of righteousness, and ye believed him not: but the publicans and the harlots believed him: and ye, when ye had seen it, repented not afterward, that ye might believe him.
Matthew 21:33 αλλην παραβολην ακουσατε ανθρωπος τις ην οικοδεσποτης οστις εφυτευσεν αμπελωνα και φραγμον αυτω περιεθηκεν και ωρυξεν εν αυτω ληνον και ωκοδομησεν πυργον και εξεδοτο αυτον γεωργοις και απεδημησεν
Matthew 21:33 Hear another parable: There was a certain householder, which planted a vineyard, and hedged it round about, and digged a winepress in it, and built a tower, and let it out to husbandmen, and went into a far country:
Matthew 21:34 οτε δε ηγγισεν ο καιρος των καρπων απεστειλεν τους δουλους αυτου προς τους γεωργους λαβειν τους καρπους αυτου
Matthew 21:34 And when the time of the fruit drew near, he sent his servants to the husbandmen, that they might receive the fruits of it.
Matthew 21:35 και λαβοντες οι γεωργοι τους δουλους αυτου ον μεν εδειραν ον δε απεκτειναν ον δε ελιθοβολησαν
Matthew 21:35 And the husbandmen took his servants, and beat one, and killed another, and stoned another.
Matthew 21:36 παλιν απεστειλεν αλλους δουλους πλειονας των πρωτων και εποιησαν αυτοις ωσαυτως
Matthew 21:36 Again, he sent other servants more than the first: and they did unto them likewise.
Matthew 21:37 υστερον δε απεστειλεν προς αυτους τον υιον αυτου λεγων εντραπησονται τον υιον μου
Matthew 21:37 But last of all he sent unto them his son, saying, They will reverence my son.
Matthew 21:38 οι δε γεωργοι ιδοντες τον υιον ειπον εν εαυτοις ουτος εστιν ο κληρονομος δευτε αποκτεινωμεν αυτον και κατασχωμεν την κληρονομιαν αυτου
Matthew 21:38 But when the husbandmen saw the son, they said among themselves, This is the heir; come, let us kill him, and let us seize on his inheritance.
Matthew 21:39 και λαβοντες αυτον εξεβαλον εξω του αμπελωνος και απεκτειναν
Matthew 21:39 And they caught him, and cast him out of the vineyard, and slew him.
Matthew 21:40 οταν ουν ελθη ο κυριος του αμπελωνος τι ποιησει τοις γεωργοις εκεινοις
Matthew 21:40 When the lord therefore of the vineyard cometh, what will he do unto those husbandmen?
Matthew 21:41 λεγουσιν αυτω κακους κακως απολεσει αυτους και τον αμπελωνα εκδοσεται αλλοις γεωργοις οιτινες αποδωσουσιν αυτω τους καρπους εν τοις καιροις αυτων
Matthew 21:41 They say unto him, He will miserably destroy those wicked men, and will let out his vineyard unto other husbandmen, which shall render him the fruits in their seasons.
Matthew 21:42 λεγει αυτοις ο ιησους ουδεποτε ανεγνωτε εν ταις γραφαις λιθον ον απεδοκιμασαν οι οικοδομουντες ουτος εγενηθη εις κεφαλην γωνιας παρα κυριου εγενετο αυτη και εστιν θαυμαστη εν οφθαλμοις ημων
Matthew 21:42 Jesus saith unto them, Did ye never read in the scriptures, The stone which the builders rejected, the same is become the head of the corner: this is the Lord's doing, and it is marvellous in our eyes?
Matthew 21:43 δια τουτο λεγω υμιν οτι αρθησεται αφ υμων η βασιλεια του θεου και δοθησεται εθνει ποιουντι τους καρπους αυτης
Matthew 21:43 Therefore say I unto you, The kingdom of God shall be taken from you, and given to a nation bringing forth the fruits thereof.
Matthew 21:44 και ο πεσων επι τον λιθον τουτον συνθλασθησεται εφ ον δ αν πεση λικμησει αυτον
Matthew 21:44 And whosoever shall fall on this stone shall be broken: but on whomsoever it shall fall, it will grind him to powder.
Matthew 21:45 και ακουσαντες οι αρχιερεις και οι φαρισαιοι τας παραβολας αυτου εγνωσαν οτι περι αυτων λεγει
Matthew 21:45 And when the chief priests and Pharisees had heard his parables, they perceived that he spake of them.
Matthew 21:46 και ζητουντες αυτον κρατησαι εφοβηθησαν τους οχλους επειδη ως προφητην αυτον ειχον
Matthew 21:46 But when they sought to lay hands on him, they feared the multitude, because they took him for a prophet.
Matthew 22:1 και αποκριθεις ο ιησους παλιν ειπεν αυτοις εν παραβολαις λεγων
Matthew 22:1 And Jesus answered and spake unto them again by parables, and said,
Matthew 22:2 ωμοιωθη η βασιλεια των ουρανων ανθρωπω βασιλει οστις εποιησεν γαμους τω υιω αυτου
Matthew 22:2 The kingdom of heaven is like unto a certain king, which made a marriage for his son,
Matthew 22:3 και απεστειλεν τους δουλους αυτου καλεσαι τους κεκλημενους εις τους γαμους και ουκ ηθελον ελθειν
Matthew 22:3 And sent forth his servants to call them that were bidden to the wedding: and they would not come.
Matthew 22:4 παλιν απεστειλεν αλλους δουλους λεγων ειπατε τοις κεκλημενοις ιδου το αριστον μου ητοιμασα οι ταυροι μου και τα σιτιστα τεθυμενα και παντα ετοιμα δευτε εις τους γαμους
Matthew 22:4 Again, he sent forth other servants, saying, Tell them which are bidden, Behold, I have prepared my dinner: my oxen and my fatlings are killed, and all things are ready: come unto the marriage.
Matthew 22:5 οι δε αμελησαντες απηλθον ο μεν εις τον ιδιον αγρον ο δε εις την εμποριαν αυτου
Matthew 22:5 But they made light of it, and went their ways, one to his farm, another to his merchandise:
Matthew 22:6 οι δε λοιποι κρατησαντες τους δουλους αυτου υβρισαν και απεκτειναν
Matthew 22:6 And the remnant took his servants, and entreated them spitefully, and slew them.
Matthew 22:7 ακουσας δε ο βασιλευς ωργισθη και πεμψας τα στρατευματα αυτου απωλεσεν τους φονεις εκεινους και την πολιν αυτων ενεπρησεν
Matthew 22:7 But when the king heard thereof, he was wroth: and he sent forth his armies, and destroyed those murderers, and burned up their city.
Matthew 22:8 τοτε λεγει τοις δουλοις αυτου ο μεν γαμος ετοιμος εστιν οι δε κεκλημενοι ουκ ησαν αξιοι
Matthew 22:8 Then saith he to his servants, The wedding is ready, but they which were bidden were not worthy.
Matthew 22:9 πορευεσθε ουν επι τας διεξοδους των οδων και οσους αν ευρητε καλεσατε εις τους γαμους
Matthew 22:9 Go ye therefore into the highways, and as many as ye shall find, bid to the marriage.
Matthew 22:10 και εξελθοντες οι δουλοι εκεινοι εις τας οδους συνηγαγον παντας οσους ευρον πονηρους τε και αγαθους και επλησθη ο γαμος ανακειμενων
Matthew 22:10 So those servants went out into the highways, and gathered together all as many as they found, both bad and good: and the wedding was furnished with guests.
Matthew 22:11 εισελθων δε ο βασιλευς θεασασθαι τους ανακειμενους ειδεν εκει ανθρωπον ουκ ενδεδυμενον ενδυμα γαμου
Matthew 22:11 And when the king came in to see the guests, he saw there a man which had not on a wedding garment:
Matthew 22:12 και λεγει αυτω εταιρε πως εισηλθες ωδε μη εχων ενδυμα γαμου ο δε εφιμωθη
Matthew 22:12 And he saith unto him, Friend, how camest thou in hither not having a wedding garment? And he was speechless.
Matthew 22:13 τοτε ειπεν ο βασιλευς τοις διακονοις δησαντες αυτου ποδας και χειρας αρατε αυτον και εκβαλετε εις το σκοτος το εξωτερον εκει εσται ο κλαυθμος και ο βρυγμος των οδοντων
Matthew 22:13 Then said the king to the servants, Bind him hand and foot, and take him away, and cast him into outer darkness, there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
Matthew 22:14 πολλοι γαρ εισιν κλητοι ολιγοι δε εκλεκτοι
Matthew 22:14 For many are called, but few are chosen.
Matthew 22:15 τοτε πορευθεντες οι φαρισαιοι συμβουλιον ελαβον οπως αυτον παγιδευσωσιν εν λογω
Matthew 22:15 Then went the Pharisees, and took counsel how they might entangle him in his talk.
Matthew 22:16 και αποστελλουσιν αυτω τους μαθητας αυτων μετα των ηρωδιανων λεγοντες διδασκαλε οιδαμεν οτι αληθης ει και την οδον του θεου εν αληθεια διδασκεις και ου μελει σοι περι ουδενος ου γαρ βλεπεις εις προσωπον ανθρωπων
Matthew 22:16 And they sent out unto him their disciples with the Herodians, saying, Master, we know that thou art true, and teachest the way of God in truth, neither carest thou for any man: for thou regardest not the person of men.
Matthew 22:17 ειπε ουν ημιν τι σοι δοκει εξεστιν δουναι κηνσον καισαρι η ου
Matthew 22:17 Tell us therefore, What thinkest thou? Is it lawful to give tribute unto Caesar, or not?
Matthew 22:18 γνους δε ο ιησους την πονηριαν αυτων ειπεν τι με πειραζετε υποκριται
Matthew 22:18 But Jesus perceived their wickedness, and said, Why tempt ye me, ye hypocrites?
Matthew 22:19 επιδειξατε μοι το νομισμα του κηνσου οι δε προσηνεγκαν αυτω δηναριον
Matthew 22:19 Shew me the tribute money. And they brought unto him a penny.
Matthew 22:20 και λεγει αυτοις τινος η εικων αυτη και η επιγραφη
Matthew 22:20 And he saith unto them, Whose is this image and superscription?
Matthew 22:21 λεγουσιν αυτω καισαρος τοτε λεγει αυτοις αποδοτε ουν τα καισαρος καισαρι και τα του θεου τω θεω
Matthew 22:21 They say unto him, Caesar's. Then saith he unto them, Render therefore unto Caesar the things which are Caesar's; and unto God the things that are God's.
Matthew 22:22 και ακουσαντες εθαυμασαν και αφεντες αυτον απηλθον
Matthew 22:22 When they had heard these words, they marvelled, and left him, and went their way.
Matthew 22:23 εν εκεινη τη ημερα προσηλθον αυτω σαδδουκαιοι οι λεγοντες μη ειναι αναστασιν και επηρωτησαν αυτον
Matthew 22:23 The same day came to him the Sadducees, which say that there is no resurrection, and asked him,
Matthew 22:24 λεγοντες διδασκαλε μωσης ειπεν εαν τις αποθανη μη εχων τεκνα επιγαμβρευσει ο αδελφος αυτου την γυναικα αυτου και αναστησει σπερμα τω αδελφω αυτου
Matthew 22:24 Saying, Master, Moses said, If a man die, having no children, his brother shall marry his wife, and raise up seed unto his brother.
Matthew 22:25 ησαν δε παρ ημιν επτα αδελφοι και ο πρωτος γαμησας ετελευτησεν και μη εχων σπερμα αφηκεν την γυναικα αυτου τω αδελφω αυτου
Matthew 22:25 Now there were with us seven brethren: and the first, when he had married a wife, deceased, and, having no issue, left his wife unto his brother:
Matthew 22:26 ομοιως και ο δευτερος και ο τριτος εως των επτα
Matthew 22:26 Likewise the second also, and the third, unto the seventh.
Matthew 22:27 υστερον δε παντων απεθανεν και η γυνη
Matthew 22:27 And last of all the woman died also.
Matthew 22:28 εν τη ουν αναστασει τινος των επτα εσται γυνη παντες γαρ εσχον αυτην
Matthew 22:28 Therefore in the resurrection whose wife shall she be of the seven? for they all had her.
Matthew 22:29 αποκριθεις δε ο ιησους ειπεν αυτοις πλανασθε μη ειδοτες τας γραφας μηδε την δυναμιν του θεου
Matthew 22:29 Jesus answered and said unto them, Ye do err, not knowing the scriptures, nor the power of God.
Matthew 22:30 εν γαρ τη αναστασει ουτε γαμουσιν ουτε εκγαμιζονται αλλ ως αγγελοι του θεου εν ουρανω εισιν
Matthew 22:30 For in the resurrection they neither marry, nor are given in marriage, but are as the angels of God in heaven.
Matthew 22:31 περι δε της αναστασεως των νεκρων ουκ ανεγνωτε το ρηθεν υμιν υπο του θεου λεγοντος
Matthew 22:31 But as touching the resurrection of the dead, have ye not read that which was spoken unto you by God, saying,
Matthew 22:32 εγω ειμι ο θεος αβρααμ και ο θεος ισαακ και ο θεος ιακωβ ουκ εστιν ο θεος θεος νεκρων αλλα ζωντων
Matthew 22:32 I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob? God is not the God of the dead, but of the living.
Matthew 22:33 και ακουσαντες οι οχλοι εξεπλησσοντο επι τη διδαχη αυτου
Matthew 22:33 And when the multitude heard this, they were astonished at his doctrine.
Matthew 22:34 οι δε φαρισαιοι ακουσαντες οτι εφιμωσεν τους σαδδουκαιους συνηχθησαν επι το αυτο
Matthew 22:34 But when the Pharisees had heard that he had put the Sadducees to silence, they were gathered together.
Matthew 22:35 και επηρωτησεν εις εξ αυτων νομικος πειραζων αυτον και λεγων
Matthew 22:35 Then one of them, which was a lawyer, asked him a question, tempting him, and saying,
Matthew 22:36 διδασκαλε ποια εντολη μεγαλη εν τω νομω
Matthew 22:36 Master, which is the great commandment in the law?
Matthew 22:37 ο δε ιησους ειπεν αυτω αγαπησεις κυριον τον θεον σου εν ολη τη καρδια σου και εν ολη τη ψυχη σου και εν ολη τη διανοια σου
Matthew 22:37 Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind.
Matthew 22:38 αυτη εστιν πρωτη και μεγαλη εντολη
Matthew 22:38 This is the first and great commandment.
Matthew 22:39 δευτερα δε ομοια αυτη αγαπησεις τον πλησιον σου ως σεαυτον
Matthew 22:39 And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.
Matthew 22:40 εν ταυταις ταις δυσιν εντολαις ολος ο νομος και οι προφηται κρεμανται
Matthew 22:40 On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets.
Matthew 22:41 συνηγμενων δε των φαρισαιων επηρωτησεν αυτους ο ιησους
Matthew 22:41 While the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them,
Matthew 22:42 λεγων τι υμιν δοκει περι του χριστου τινος υιος εστιν λεγουσιν αυτω του δαβιδ
Matthew 22:42 Saying, What think ye of Christ? whose son is he? They say unto him, The son of David.
Matthew 22:43 λεγει αυτοις πως ουν δαβιδ εν πνευματι κυριον αυτον καλει λεγων
Matthew 22:43 He saith unto them, How then doth David in spirit call him Lord, saying,
Matthew 22:44 ειπεν ο κυριος τω κυριω μου καθου εκ δεξιων μου εως αν θω τους εχθρους σου υποποδιον των ποδων σου
Matthew 22:44 The LORD said unto my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand, till I make thine enemies thy footstool?
Matthew 22:45 ει ουν δαβιδ καλει αυτον κυριον πως υιος αυτου εστιν
Matthew 22:45 If David then call him Lord, how is he his son?
Matthew 22:46 και ουδεις εδυνατο αυτω αποκριθηναι λογον ουδε ετολμησεν τις απ εκεινης της ημερας επερωτησαι αυτον ουκετι
Matthew 22:46 And no man was able to answer him a word, neither durst any man from that day forth ask him any more questions.
Matthew 23:1 τοτε ο ιησους ελαλησεν τοις οχλοις και τοις μαθηταις αυτου
Matthew 23:1 Then spake Jesus to the multitude, and to his disciples,
Matthew 23:2 λεγων επι της μωσεως καθεδρας εκαθισαν οι γραμματεις και οι φαρισαιοι
Matthew 23:2 Saying The scribes and the Pharisees sit in Moses' seat:
Matthew 23:3 παντα ουν οσα αν ειπωσιν υμιν τηρειν τηρειτε και ποιειτε κατα δε τα εργα αυτων μη ποιειτε λεγουσιν γαρ και ου ποιουσιν
Matthew 23:3 All therefore whatsoever they bid you observe, that observe and do; but do not ye after their works: for they say, and do not.
Matthew 23:4 δεσμευουσιν γαρ φορτια βαρεα και δυσβαστακτα και επιτιθεασιν επι τους ωμους των ανθρωπων τω δε δακτυλω αυτων ου θελουσιν κινησαι αυτα
Matthew 23:4 For they bind heavy burdens and grievous to be borne, and lay them on men's shoulders; but they themselves will not move them with one of their fingers.
Matthew 23:5 παντα δε τα εργα αυτων ποιουσιν προς το θεαθηναι τοις ανθρωποις πλατυνουσιν δε τα φυλακτηρια αυτων και μεγαλυνουσιν τα κρασπεδα των ιματιων αυτων
Matthew 23:5 But all their works they do for to be seen of men: they make broad their phylacteries, and enlarge the borders of their garments,
Matthew 23:6 φιλουσιν τε την πρωτοκλισιαν εν τοις δειπνοις και τας πρωτοκαθεδριας εν ταις συναγωγαις
Matthew 23:6 And love the uppermost rooms at feasts, and the chief seats in the synagogues,
Matthew 23:7 και τους ασπασμους εν ταις αγοραις και καλεισθαι υπο των ανθρωπων ραββι ραββι
Matthew 23:7 And greetings in the markets, and to be called of men, Rabbi, Rabbi.
Matthew 23:8 υμεις δε μη κληθητε ραββι εις γαρ εστιν υμων ο καθηγητης ο χριστος παντες δε υμεις αδελφοι εστε
Matthew 23:8 But be not ye called Rabbi: for one is your Master, even Christ; and all ye are brethren.
Matthew 23:9 και πατερα μη καλεσητε υμων επι της γης εις γαρ εστιν ο πατηρ υμων ο εν τοις ουρανοις
Matthew 23:9 And call no man your father upon the earth: for one is your Father, which is in heaven.
Matthew 23:10 μηδε κληθητε καθηγηται εις γαρ υμων εστιν ο καθηγητης ο χριστος
Matthew 23:10 Neither be ye called masters: for one is your Master, even Christ.
Matthew 23:11 ο δε μειζων υμων εσται υμων διακονος
Matthew 23:11 But he that is greatest among you shall be your servant.
Matthew 23:12 οστις δε υψωσει εαυτον ταπεινωθησεται και οστις ταπεινωσει εαυτον υψωθησεται
Matthew 23:12 And whosoever shall exalt himself shall be abased; and he that shall humble himself shall be exalted.
Matthew 23:13 ουαι δε υμιν γραμματεις και φαρισαιοι υποκριται οτι κατεσθιετε τας οικιας των χηρων και προφασει μακρα προσευχομενοι δια τουτο ληψεσθε περισσοτερον κριμα
Matthew 23:13 But woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye shut up the kingdom of heaven against men: for ye neither go in yourselves, neither suffer ye them that are entering to go in.
Matthew 23:14 ουαι υμιν γραμματεις και φαρισαιοι υποκριται οτι κλειετε την βασιλειαν των ουρανων εμπροσθεν των ανθρωπων υμεις γαρ ουκ εισερχεσθε ουδε τους εισερχομενους αφιετε εισελθειν
Matthew 23:14 Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye devour widows' houses, and for a pretence make long prayer: therefore ye shall receive the greater damnation.
Matthew 23:15 ουαι υμιν γραμματεις και φαρισαιοι υποκριται οτι περιαγετε την θαλασσαν και την ξηραν ποιησαι ενα προσηλυτον και οταν γενηται ποιειτε αυτον υιον γεεννης διπλοτερον υμων
Matthew 23:15 Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye compass sea and land to make one proselyte, and when he is made, ye make him twofold more the child of hell than yourselves.
Matthew 23:16 ουαι υμιν οδηγοι τυφλοι οι λεγοντες ος αν ομοση εν τω ναω ουδεν εστιν ος δ αν ομοση εν τω χρυσω του ναου οφειλει
Matthew 23:16 Woe unto you, ye blind guides, which say, Whosoever shall swear by the temple, it is nothing; but whosoever shall swear by the gold of the temple, he is a debtor!
Matthew 23:17 μωροι και τυφλοι τις γαρ μειζων εστιν ο χρυσος η ο ναος ο αγιαζων τον χρυσον
Matthew 23:17 Ye fools and blind: for whether is greater, the gold, or the temple that sanctifieth the gold?
Matthew 23:18 και ος εαν ομοση εν τω θυσιαστηριω ουδεν εστιν ος δ αν ομοση εν τω δωρω τω επανω αυτου οφειλει
Matthew 23:18 And, Whosoever shall swear by the altar, it is nothing; but whosoever sweareth by the gift that is upon it, he is guilty.
Matthew 23:19 μωροι και τυφλοι τι γαρ μειζον το δωρον η το θυσιαστηριον το αγιαζον το δωρον
Matthew 23:19 Ye fools and blind: for whether is greater, the gift, or the altar that sanctifieth the gift?
Matthew 23:20 ο ουν ομοσας εν τω θυσιαστηριω ομνυει εν αυτω και εν πασιν τοις επανω αυτου
Matthew 23:20 Whoso therefore shall swear by the altar, sweareth by it, and by all things thereon.
Matthew 23:21 και ο ομοσας εν τω ναω ομνυει εν αυτω και εν τω κατοικουντι αυτον
Matthew 23:21 And whoso shall swear by the temple, sweareth by it, and by him that dwelleth therein.
Matthew 23:22 και ο ομοσας εν τω ουρανω ομνυει εν τω θρονω του θεου και εν τω καθημενω επανω αυτου
Matthew 23:22 And he that shall swear by heaven, sweareth by the throne of God, and by him that sitteth thereon.
Matthew 23:23 ουαι υμιν γραμματεις και φαρισαιοι υποκριται οτι αποδεκατουτε το ηδυοσμον και το ανηθον και το κυμινον και αφηκατε τα βαρυτερα του νομου την κρισιν και τον ελεον και την πιστιν ταυτα εδει ποιησαι κακεινα μη αφιεναι
Matthew 23:23 Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye pay tithe of mint and anise and cummin, and have omitted the weightier matters of the law, judgment, mercy, and faith: these ought ye to have done, and not to leave the other undone.
Matthew 23:24 οδηγοι τυφλοι οι διυλιζοντες τον κωνωπα την δε καμηλον καταπινοντες
Matthew 23:24 Ye blind guides, which strain at a gnat, and swallow a camel.
Matthew 23:25 ουαι υμιν γραμματεις και φαρισαιοι υποκριται οτι καθαριζετε το εξωθεν του ποτηριου και της παροψιδος εσωθεν δε γεμουσιν εξ αρπαγης και ακρασιας
Matthew 23:25 Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye make clean the outside of the cup and of the platter, but within they are full of extortion and excess.
Matthew 23:26 φαρισαιε τυφλε καθαρισον πρωτον το εντος του ποτηριου και της παροψιδος ινα γενηται και το εκτος αυτων καθαρον
Matthew 23:26 Thou blind Pharisee, cleanse first that which is within the cup and platter, that the outside of them may be clean also.
Matthew 23:27 ουαι υμιν γραμματεις και φαρισαιοι υποκριται οτι παρομοιαζετε ταφοις κεκονιαμενοις οιτινες εξωθεν μεν φαινονται ωραιοι εσωθεν δε γεμουσιν οστεων νεκρων και πασης ακαθαρσιας
Matthew 23:27 Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye are like unto whited sepulchres, which indeed appear beautiful outward, but are within full of dead men's bones, and of all uncleanness.
Matthew 23:28 ουτως και υμεις εξωθεν μεν φαινεσθε τοις ανθρωποις δικαιοι εσωθεν δε μεστοι εστε υποκρισεως και ανομιας
Matthew 23:28 Even so ye also outwardly appear righteous unto men, but within ye are full of hypocrisy and iniquity.
Matthew 23:29 ουαι υμιν γραμματεις και φαρισαιοι υποκριται οτι οικοδομειτε τους ταφους των προφητων και κοσμειτε τα μνημεια των δικαιων
Matthew 23:29 Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! because ye build the tombs of the prophets, and garnish the sepulchres of the righteous,
Matthew 23:30 και λεγετε ει ημεν εν ταις ημεραις των πατερων ημων ουκ αν ημεν κοινωνοι αυτων εν τω αιματι των προφητων
Matthew 23:30 And say, If we had been in the days of our fathers, we would not have been partakers with them in the blood of the prophets.
Matthew 23:31 ωστε μαρτυρειτε εαυτοις οτι υιοι εστε των φονευσαντων τους προφητας
Matthew 23:31 Wherefore ye be witnesses unto yourselves, that ye are the children of them which killed the prophets.
Matthew 23:32 και υμεις πληρωσατε το μετρον των πατερων υμων
Matthew 23:32 Fill ye up then the measure of your fathers.
Matthew 23:33 οφεις γεννηματα εχιδνων πως φυγητε απο της κρισεως της γεεννης
Matthew 23:33 Ye serpents, ye generation of vipers, how can ye escape the damnation of hell?
Matthew 23:34 δια τουτο ιδου εγω αποστελλω προς υμας προφητας και σοφους και γραμματεις και εξ αυτων αποκτενειτε και σταυρωσετε και εξ αυτων μαστιγωσετε εν ταις συναγωγαις υμων και διωξετε απο πολεως εις πολιν
Matthew 23:34 Wherefore, behold, I send unto you prophets, and wise men, and scribes: and some of them ye shall kill and crucify; and some of them shall ye scourge in your synagogues, and persecute them from city to city:
Matthew 23:35 οπως ελθη εφ υμας παν αιμα δικαιον εκχυνομενον επι της γης απο του αιματος αβελ του δικαιου εως του αιματος ζαχαριου υιου βαραχιου ον εφονευσατε μεταξυ του ναου και του θυσιαστηριου
Matthew 23:35 That upon you may come all the righteous blood shed upon the earth, from the blood of righteous Abel unto the blood of Zacharias son of Barachias, whom ye slew between the temple and the altar.
Matthew 23:36 αμην λεγω υμιν ηξει ταυτα παντα επι την γενεαν ταυτην
Matthew 23:36 Verily I say unto you, All these things shall come upon this generation.
Matthew 23:37 ιερουσαλημ ιερουσαλημ η αποκτεινουσα τους προφητας και λιθοβολουσα τους απεσταλμενους προς αυτην ποσακις ηθελησα επισυναγαγειν τα τεκνα σου ον τροπον επισυναγει ορνις τα νοσσια εαυτης υπο τας πτερυγας και ουκ ηθελησατε
Matthew 23:37 O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, thou that killest the prophets, and stonest them which are sent unto thee, how often would I have gathered thy children together, even as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, and ye would not!
Matthew 23:38 ιδου αφιεται υμιν ο οικος υμων ερημος
Matthew 23:38 Behold, your house is left unto you desolate.
Matthew 23:39 λεγω γαρ υμιν ου μη με ιδητε απ αρτι εως αν ειπητε ευλογημενος ο ερχομενος εν ονοματι κυριου
Matthew 23:39 For I say unto you, Ye shall not see me henceforth, till ye shall say, Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord.
Matthew 24:1 και εξελθων ο ιησους επορευετο απο του ιερου και προσηλθον οι μαθηται αυτου επιδειξαι αυτω τας οικοδομας του ιερου
Matthew 24:1 And Jesus went out, and departed from the temple: and his disciples came to him for to shew him the buildings of the temple.
Matthew 24:2 ο δε ιησους ειπεν αυτοις ου βλεπετε παντα ταυτα αμην λεγω υμιν ου μη αφεθη ωδε λιθος επι λιθον ος ου μη καταλυθησεται
Matthew 24:2 And Jesus said unto them, See ye not all these things? verily I say unto you, There shall not be left here one stone upon another, that shall not be thrown down.
Matthew 24:3 καθημενου δε αυτου επι του ορους των ελαιων προσηλθον αυτω οι μαθηται κατ ιδιαν λεγοντες ειπε ημιν ποτε ταυτα εσται και τι το σημειον της σης παρουσιας και της συντελειας του αιωνος
Matthew 24:3 And as he sat upon the mount of Olives, the disciples came unto him privately, saying, Tell us, when shall these things be? and what shall be the sign of thy coming, and of the end of the world?
Matthew 24:4 και αποκριθεις ο ιησους ειπεν αυτοις βλεπετε μη τις υμας πλανηση
Matthew 24:4 And Jesus answered and said unto them, Take heed that no man deceive you.
Matthew 24:5 πολλοι γαρ ελευσονται επι τω ονοματι μου λεγοντες εγω ειμι ο χριστος και πολλους πλανησουσιν
Matthew 24:5 For many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ; and shall deceive many.
Matthew 24:6 μελλησετε δε ακουειν πολεμους και ακοας πολεμων ορατε μη θροεισθε δει γαρ παντα γενεσθαι αλλ ουπω εστιν το τελος
Matthew 24:6 And ye shall hear of wars and rumours of wars: see that ye be not troubled: for all these things must come to pass, but the end is not yet.
Matthew 24:7 εγερθησεται γαρ εθνος επι εθνος και βασιλεια επι βασιλειαν και εσονται λιμοι και λοιμοι και σεισμοι κατα τοπους
Matthew 24:7 For nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom: and there shall be famines, and pestilences, and earthquakes, in divers places.
Matthew 24:8 παντα δε ταυτα αρχη ωδινων
Matthew 24:8 All these are the beginning of sorrows.
Matthew 24:9 τοτε παραδωσουσιν υμας εις θλιψιν και αποκτενουσιν υμας και εσεσθε μισουμενοι υπο παντων των εθνων δια το ονομα μου
Matthew 24:9 Then shall they deliver you up to be afflicted, and shall kill you: and ye shall be hated of all nations for my name's sake.
Matthew 24:10 και τοτε σκανδαλισθησονται πολλοι και αλληλους παραδωσουσιν και μισησουσιν αλληλους
Matthew 24:10 And then shall many be offended, and shall betray one another, and shall hate one another.
Matthew 24:11 και πολλοι ψευδοπροφηται εγερθησονται και πλανησουσιν πολλους
Matthew 24:11 And many false prophets shall rise, and shall deceive many.
Matthew 24:12 και δια το πληθυνθηναι την ανομιαν ψυγησεται η αγαπη των πολλων
Matthew 24:12 And because iniquity shall abound, the love of many shall wax cold.
Matthew 24:13 ο δε υπομεινας εις τελος ουτος σωθησεται
Matthew 24:13 But he that shall endure unto the end, the same shall be saved.
Matthew 24:14 και κηρυχθησεται τουτο το ευαγγελιον της βασιλειας εν ολη τη οικουμενη εις μαρτυριον πασιν τοις εθνεσιν και τοτε ηξει το τελος
Matthew 24:14 And this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world for a witness unto all nations; and then shall the end come.
Matthew 24:15 οταν ουν ιδητε το βδελυγμα της ερημωσεως το ρηθεν δια δανιηλ του προφητου εστος εν τοπω αγιω ο αναγινωσκων νοειτω
Matthew 24:15 When ye therefore shall see the abomination of desolation, spoken of by Daniel the prophet, stand in the holy place, (whoso readeth, let him understand:)
Matthew 24:16 τοτε οι εν τη ιουδαια φευγετωσαν επι τα ορη
Matthew 24:16 Then let them which be in Judaea flee into the mountains:
Matthew 24:17 ο επι του δωματος μη καταβαινετω αραι τι εκ της οικιας αυτου
Matthew 24:17 Let him which is on the housetop not come down to take any thing out of his house:
Matthew 24:18 και ο εν τω αγρω μη επιστρεψατω οπισω αραι τα ιματια αυτου
Matthew 24:18 Neither let him which is in the field return back to take his clothes.
Matthew 24:19 ουαι δε ταις εν γαστρι εχουσαις και ταις θηλαζουσαις εν εκειναις ταις ημεραις
Matthew 24:19 And woe unto them that are with child, and to them that give suck in those days!
Matthew 24:20 προσευχεσθε δε ινα μη γενηται η φυγη υμων χειμωνος μηδε εν σαββατω
Matthew 24:20 But pray ye that your flight be not in the winter, neither on the sabbath day:
Matthew 24:21 εσται γαρ τοτε θλιψις μεγαλη οια ου γεγονεν απ αρχης κοσμου εως του νυν ουδ ου μη γενηται
Matthew 24:21 For then shall be great tribulation, such as was not since the beginning of the world to this time, no, nor ever shall be.
Matthew 24:22 και ει μη εκολοβωθησαν αι ημεραι εκειναι ουκ αν εσωθη πασα σαρξ δια δε τους εκλεκτους κολοβωθησονται αι ημεραι εκειναι
Matthew 24:22 And except those days should be shortened, there should no flesh be saved: but for the elect's sake those days shall be shortened.
Matthew 24:23 τοτε εαν τις υμιν ειπη ιδου ωδε ο χριστος η ωδε μη πιστευσητε
Matthew 24:23 Then if any man shall say unto you, Lo, here is Christ, or there; believe it not.
Matthew 24:24 εγερθησονται γαρ ψευδοχριστοι και ψευδοπροφηται και δωσουσιν σημεια μεγαλα και τερατα ωστε πλανησαι ει δυνατον και τους εκλεκτους
Matthew 24:24 For there shall arise false Christs, and false prophets, and shall shew great signs and wonders; insomuch that, if it were possible, they shall deceive the very elect.
Matthew 24:25 ιδου προειρηκα υμιν
Matthew 24:25 Behold, I have told you before.
Matthew 24:26 εαν ουν ειπωσιν υμιν ιδου εν τη ερημω εστιν μη εξελθητε ιδου εν τοις ταμειοις μη πιστευσητε
Matthew 24:26 Wherefore if they shall say unto you, Behold, he is in the desert; go not forth: behold, he is in the secret chambers; believe it not.
Matthew 24:27 ωσπερ γαρ η αστραπη εξερχεται απο ανατολων και φαινεται εως δυσμων ουτως εσται και η παρουσια του υιου του ανθρωπου
Matthew 24:27 For as the lightning cometh out of the east, and shineth even unto the west; so shall also the coming of the Son of man be.
Matthew 24:28 οπου γαρ εαν η το πτωμα εκει συναχθησονται οι αετοι
Matthew 24:28 For wheresoever the carcase is, there will the eagles be gathered together.
Matthew 24:29 ευθεως δε μετα την θλιψιν των ημερων εκεινων ο ηλιος σκοτισθησεται και η σεληνη ου δωσει το φεγγος αυτης και οι αστερες πεσουνται απο του ουρανου και αι δυναμεις των ουρανων σαλευθησονται
Matthew 24:29 Immediately after the tribulation of those days shall the sun be darkened, and the moon shall not give her light, and the stars shall fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens shall be shaken:
Matthew 24:30 και τοτε φανησεται το σημειον του υιου του ανθρωπου εν τω ουρανω και τοτε κοψονται πασαι αι φυλαι της γης και οψονται τον υιον του ανθρωπου ερχομενον επι των νεφελων του ουρανου μετα δυναμεως και δοξης πολλης
Matthew 24:30 And then shall appear the sign of the Son of man in heaven: and then shall all the tribes of the earth mourn, and they shall see the Son of man coming in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory.
Matthew 24:31 και αποστελει τους αγγελους αυτου μετα σαλπιγγος φωνης μεγαλης και επισυναξουσιν τους εκλεκτους αυτου εκ των τεσσαρων ανεμων απ ακρων ουρανων εως ακρων αυτων
Matthew 24:31 And he shall send his angels with a great sound of a trumpet, and they shall gather together his elect from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other.
Matthew 24:32 απο δε της συκης μαθετε την παραβολην οταν ηδη ο κλαδος αυτης γενηται απαλος και τα φυλλα εκφυη γινωσκετε οτι εγγυς το θερος
Matthew 24:32 Now learn a parable of the fig tree; When his branch is yet tender, and putteth forth leaves, ye know that summer is nigh:
Matthew 24:33 ουτως και υμεις οταν ιδητε παντα ταυτα γινωσκετε οτι εγγυς εστιν επι θυραις
Matthew 24:33 So likewise ye, when ye shall see all these things, know that it is near, even at the doors.
Matthew 24:34 αμην λεγω υμιν ου μη παρελθη η γενεα αυτη εως αν παντα ταυτα γενηται
Matthew 24:34 Verily I say unto you, This generation shall not pass, till all these things be fulfilled.
Matthew 24:35 ο ουρανος και η γη παρελευσονται οι δε λογοι μου ου μη παρελθωσιν
Matthew 24:35 Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my words shall not pass away.
Matthew 24:36 περι δε της ημερας εκεινης και της ωρας ουδεις οιδεν ουδε οι αγγελοι των ουρανων ει μη ο πατηρ μου μονος
Matthew 24:36 But of that day and hour knoweth no man, no, not the angels of heaven, but my Father only.
Matthew 24:37 ωσπερ δε αι ημεραι του νωε ουτως εσται και η παρουσια του υιου του ανθρωπου
Matthew 24:37 But as the days of Noe were, so shall also the coming of the Son of man be.
Matthew 24:38 ωσπερ γαρ ησαν εν ταις ημεραις ταις προ του κατακλυσμου τρωγοντες και πινοντες γαμουντες και εκγαμιζοντες αχρι ης ημερας εισηλθεν νωε εις την κιβωτον
Matthew 24:38 For as in the days that were before the flood they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage, until the day that Noe entered into the ark,
Matthew 24:39 και ουκ εγνωσαν εως ηλθεν ο κατακλυσμος και ηρεν απαντας ουτως εσται και η παρουσια του υιου του ανθρωπου
Matthew 24:39 And knew not until the flood came, and took them all away; so shall also the coming of the Son of man be.
Matthew 24:40 τοτε δυο εσονται εν τω αγρω ο εις παραλαμβανεται και ο εις αφιεται
Matthew 24:40 Then shall two be in the field; the one shall be taken, and the other left.
Matthew 24:41 δυο αληθουσαι εν τω μυλωνι μια παραλαμβανεται και μια αφιεται
Matthew 24:41 Two women shall be grinding at the mill; the one shall be taken, and the other left.
Matthew 24:42 γρηγορειτε ουν οτι ουκ οιδατε ποια ωρα ο κυριος υμων ερχεται
Matthew 24:42 Watch therefore: for ye know not what hour your Lord doth come.
Matthew 24:43 εκεινο δε γινωσκετε οτι ει ηδει ο οικοδεσποτης ποια φυλακη ο κλεπτης ερχεται εγρηγορησεν αν και ουκ αν ειασεν διορυγηναι την οικιαν αυτου
Matthew 24:43 But know this, that if the goodman of the house had known in what watch the thief would come, he would have watched, and would not have suffered his house to be broken up.
Matthew 24:44 δια τουτο και υμεις γινεσθε ετοιμοι οτι η ωρα ου δοκειτε ο υιος του ανθρωπου ερχεται
Matthew 24:44 Therefore be ye also ready: for in such an hour as ye think not the Son of man cometh.
Matthew 24:45 τις αρα εστιν ο πιστος δουλος και φρονιμος ον κατεστησεν ο κυριος αυτου επι της θεραπειας αυτου του διδοναι αυτοις την τροφην εν καιρω
Matthew 24:45 Who then is a faithful and wise servant, whom his lord hath made ruler over his household, to give them meat in due season?
Matthew 24:46 μακαριος ο δουλος εκεινος ον ελθων ο κυριος αυτου ευρησει ποιουντα ουτως
Matthew 24:46 Blessed is that servant, whom his lord when he cometh shall find so doing.
Matthew 24:47 αμην λεγω υμιν οτι επι πασιν τοις υπαρχουσιν αυτου καταστησει αυτον
Matthew 24:47 Verily I say unto you, That he shall make him ruler over all his goods.
Matthew 24:48 εαν δε ειπη ο κακος δουλος εκεινος εν τη καρδια αυτου χρονιζει ο κυριος μου ελθειν
Matthew 24:48 But and if that evil servant shall say in his heart, My lord delayeth his coming;
Matthew 24:49 και αρξηται τυπτειν τους συνδουλους εσθιειν δε και πινειν μετα των μεθυοντων
Matthew 24:49 And shall begin to smite his fellowservants, and to eat and drink with the drunken;
Matthew 24:50 ηξει ο κυριος του δουλου εκεινου εν ημερα η ου προσδοκα και εν ωρα η ου γινωσκει
Matthew 24:50 The lord of that servant shall come in a day when he looketh not for him, and in an hour that he is not aware of,
Matthew 24:51 και διχοτομησει αυτον και το μερος αυτου μετα των υποκριτων θησει εκει εσται ο κλαυθμος και ο βρυγμος των οδοντων
Matthew 24:51 And shall cut him asunder, and appoint him his portion with the hypocrites: there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
Matthew 25:1 τοτε ομοιωθησεται η βασιλεια των ουρανων δεκα παρθενοις αιτινες λαβουσαι τας λαμπαδας αυτων εξηλθον εις απαντησιν του νυμφιου
Matthew 25:1 Then shall the kingdom of heaven be likened unto ten virgins, which took their lamps, and went forth to meet the bridegroom.
Matthew 25:2 πεντε δε ησαν εξ αυτων φρονιμοι και αι πεντε μωραι
Matthew 25:2 And five of them were wise, and five were foolish.
Matthew 25:3 αιτινες μωραι λαβουσαι τας λαμπαδας εαυτων ουκ ελαβον μεθ εαυτων ελαιον
Matthew 25:3 They that were foolish took their lamps, and took no oil with them:
Matthew 25:4 αι δε φρονιμοι ελαβον ελαιον εν τοις αγγειοις αυτων μετα των λαμπαδων αυτων
Matthew 25:4 But the wise took oil in their vessels with their lamps.
Matthew 25:5 χρονιζοντος δε του νυμφιου ενυσταξαν πασαι και εκαθευδον
Matthew 25:5 While the bridegroom tarried, they all slumbered and slept.
Matthew 25:6 μεσης δε νυκτος κραυγη γεγονεν ιδου ο νυμφιος ερχεται εξερχεσθε εις απαντησιν αυτου
Matthew 25:6 And at midnight there was a cry made, Behold, the bridegroom cometh; go ye out to meet him.
Matthew 25:7 τοτε ηγερθησαν πασαι αι παρθενοι εκειναι και εκοσμησαν τας λαμπαδας αυτων
Matthew 25:7 Then all those virgins arose, and trimmed their lamps.
Matthew 25:8 αι δε μωραι ταις φρονιμοις ειπον δοτε ημιν εκ του ελαιου υμων οτι αι λαμπαδες ημων σβεννυνται
Matthew 25:8 And the foolish said unto the wise, Give us of your oil; for our lamps are gone out.
Matthew 25:9 απεκριθησαν δε αι φρονιμοι λεγουσαι μηποτε ουκ αρκεση ημιν και υμιν πορευεσθε δε μαλλον προς τους πωλουντας και αγορασατε εαυταις
Matthew 25:9 But the wise answered, saying, Not so; lest there be not enough for us and you: but go ye rather to them that sell, and buy for yourselves.
Matthew 25:10 απερχομενων δε αυτων αγορασαι ηλθεν ο νυμφιος και αι ετοιμοι εισηλθον μετ αυτου εις τους γαμους και εκλεισθη η θυρα
Matthew 25:10 And while they went to buy, the bridegroom came; and they that were ready went in with him to the marriage: and the door was shut.
Matthew 25:11 υστερον δε ερχονται και αι λοιπαι παρθενοι λεγουσαι κυριε κυριε ανοιξον ημιν
Matthew 25:11 Afterward came also the other virgins, saying, Lord, Lord, open to us.
Matthew 25:12 ο δε αποκριθεις ειπεν αμην λεγω υμιν ουκ οιδα υμας
Matthew 25:12 But he answered and said, Verily I say unto you, I know you not.
Matthew 25:13 γρηγορειτε ουν οτι ουκ οιδατε την ημεραν ουδε την ωραν εν η ο υιος του ανθρωπου ερχεται
Matthew 25:13 Watch therefore, for ye know neither the day nor the hour wherein the Son of man cometh.
Matthew 25:14 ωσπερ γαρ ανθρωπος αποδημων εκαλεσεν τους ιδιους δουλους και παρεδωκεν αυτοις τα υπαρχοντα αυτου
Matthew 25:14 For the kingdom of heaven is as a man travelling into a far country, who called his own servants, and delivered unto them his goods.
Matthew 25:15 και ω μεν εδωκεν πεντε ταλαντα ω δε δυο ω δε εν εκαστω κατα την ιδιαν δυναμιν και απεδημησεν ευθεως
Matthew 25:15 And unto one he gave five talents, to another two, and to another one; to every man according to his several ability; and straightway took his journey.
Matthew 25:16 πορευθεις δε ο τα πεντε ταλαντα λαβων ειργασατο εν αυτοις και εποιησεν αλλα πεντε ταλαντα
Matthew 25:16 Then he that had received the five talents went and traded with the same, and made them other five talents.
Matthew 25:17 ωσαυτως και ο τα δυο εκερδησεν και αυτος αλλα δυο
Matthew 25:17 And likewise he that had received two, he also gained other two.
Matthew 25:18 ο δε το εν λαβων απελθων ωρυξεν εν τη γη και απεκρυψεν το αργυριον του κυριου αυτου
Matthew 25:18 But he that had received one went and digged in the earth, and hid his lord's money.
Matthew 25:19 μετα δε χρονον πολυν ερχεται ο κυριος των δουλων εκεινων και συναιρει μετ αυτων λογον
Matthew 25:19 After a long time the lord of those servants cometh, and reckoneth with them.
Matthew 25:20 και προσελθων ο τα πεντε ταλαντα λαβων προσηνεγκεν αλλα πεντε ταλαντα λεγων κυριε πεντε ταλαντα μοι παρεδωκας ιδε αλλα πεντε ταλαντα εκερδησα επ αυτοις
Matthew 25:20 And so he that had received five talents came and brought other five talents, saying, Lord, thou deliveredst unto me five talents: behold, I have gained beside them five talents more.
Matthew 25:21 εφη δε αυτω ο κυριος αυτου ευ δουλε αγαθε και πιστε επι ολιγα ης πιστος επι πολλων σε καταστησω εισελθε εις την χαραν του κυριου σου
Matthew 25:21 His lord said unto him, Well done, thou good and faithful servant: thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy lord.
Matthew 25:22 προσελθων δε και ο τα δυο ταλαντα λαβων ειπεν κυριε δυο ταλαντα μοι παρεδωκας ιδε αλλα δυο ταλαντα εκερδησα επ αυτοις
Matthew 25:22 He also that had received two talents came and said, Lord, thou deliveredst unto me two talents: behold, I have gained two other talents beside them.
Matthew 25:23 εφη αυτω ο κυριος αυτου ευ δουλε αγαθε και πιστε επι ολιγα ης πιστος επι πολλων σε καταστησω εισελθε εις την χαραν του κυριου σου
Matthew 25:23 His lord said unto him, Well done, good and faithful servant; thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy lord.
Matthew 25:24 προσελθων δε και ο το εν ταλαντον ειληφως ειπεν κυριε εγνων σε οτι σκληρος ει ανθρωπος θεριζων οπου ουκ εσπειρας και συναγων οθεν ου διεσκορπισας
Matthew 25:24 Then he which had received the one talent came and said, Lord, I knew thee that thou art an hard man, reaping where thou hast not sown, and gathering where thou hast not strawed:
Matthew 25:25 και φοβηθεις απελθων εκρυψα το ταλαντον σου εν τη γη ιδε εχεις το σον
Matthew 25:25 And I was afraid, and went and hid thy talent in the earth: lo, there thou hast that is thine.
Matthew 25:26 αποκριθεις δε ο κυριος αυτου ειπεν αυτω πονηρε δουλε και οκνηρε ηδεις οτι θεριζω οπου ουκ εσπειρα και συναγω οθεν ου διεσκορπισα
Matthew 25:26 His lord answered and said unto him, Thou wicked and slothful servant, thou knewest that I reap where I sowed not, and gather where I have not strawed:
Matthew 25:27 εδει ουν σε βαλειν το αργυριον μου τοις τραπεζιταις και ελθων εγω εκομισαμην αν το εμον συν τοκω
Matthew 25:27 Thou oughtest therefore to have put my money to the exchangers, and then at my coming I should have received mine own with usury.
Matthew 25:28 αρατε ουν απ αυτου το ταλαντον και δοτε τω εχοντι τα δεκα ταλαντα
Matthew 25:28 Take therefore the talent from him, and give it unto him which hath ten talents.
Matthew 25:29 τω γαρ εχοντι παντι δοθησεται και περισσευθησεται απο δε του μη εχοντος και ο εχει αρθησεται απ αυτου
Matthew 25:29 For unto every one that hath shall be given, and he shall have abundance: but from him that hath not shall be taken away even that which he hath.
Matthew 25:30 και τον αχρειον δουλον εκβαλλετε εις το σκοτος το εξωτερον εκει εσται ο κλαυθμος και ο βρυγμος των οδοντων
Matthew 25:30 And cast ye the unprofitable servant into outer darkness: there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
Matthew 25:31 οταν δε ελθη ο υιος του ανθρωπου εν τη δοξη αυτου και παντες οι αγιοι αγγελοι μετ αυτου τοτε καθισει επι θρονου δοξης αυτου
Matthew 25:31 When the Son of man shall come in his glory, and all the holy angels with him, then shall he sit upon the throne of his glory:
Matthew 25:32 και συναχθησεται εμπροσθεν αυτου παντα τα εθνη και αφοριει αυτους απ αλληλων ωσπερ ο ποιμην αφοριζει τα προβατα απο των εριφων
Matthew 25:32 And before him shall be gathered all nations: and he shall separate them one from another, as a shepherd divideth his sheep from the goats:
Matthew 25:33 και στησει τα μεν προβατα εκ δεξιων αυτου τα δε εριφια εξ ευωνυμων
Matthew 25:33 And he shall set the sheep on his right hand, but the goats on the left.
Matthew 25:34 τοτε ερει ο βασιλευς τοις εκ δεξιων αυτου δευτε οι ευλογημενοι του πατρος μου κληρονομησατε την ητοιμασμενην υμιν βασιλειαν απο καταβολης κοσμου
Matthew 25:34 Then shall the King say unto them on his right hand, Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world:
Matthew 25:35 επεινασα γαρ και εδωκατε μοι φαγειν εδιψησα και εποτισατε με ξενος ημην και συνηγαγετε με
Matthew 25:35 For I was an hungred, and ye gave me meat: I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink: I was a stranger, and ye took me in:
Matthew 25:36 γυμνος και περιεβαλετε με ησθενησα και επεσκεψασθε με εν φυλακη ημην και ηλθετε προς με
Matthew 25:36 Naked, and ye clothed me: I was sick, and ye visited me: I was in prison, and ye came unto me.
Matthew 25:37 τοτε αποκριθησονται αυτω οι δικαιοι λεγοντες κυριε ποτε σε ειδομεν πεινωντα και εθρεψαμεν η διψωντα και εποτισαμεν
Matthew 25:37 Then shall the righteous answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we thee an hungred, and fed thee? or thirsty, and gave thee drink?
Matthew 25:38 ποτε δε σε ειδομεν ξενον και συνηγαγομεν η γυμνον και περιεβαλομεν
Matthew 25:38 When saw we thee a stranger, and took thee in? or naked, and clothed thee?
Matthew 25:39 ποτε δε σε ειδομεν ασθενη η εν φυλακη και ηλθομεν προς σε
Matthew 25:39 Or when saw we thee sick, or in prison, and came unto thee?
Matthew 25:40 και αποκριθεις ο βασιλευς ερει αυτοις αμην λεγω υμιν εφ οσον εποιησατε ενι τουτων των αδελφων μου των ελαχιστων εμοι εποιησατε
Matthew 25:40 And the King shall answer and say unto them, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me.
Matthew 25:41 τοτε ερει και τοις εξ ευωνυμων πορευεσθε απ εμου οι κατηραμενοι εις το πυρ το αιωνιον το ητοιμασμενον τω διαβολω και τοις αγγελοις αυτου
Matthew 25:41 Then shall he say also unto them on the left hand, Depart from me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire, prepared for the devil and his angels:
Matthew 25:42 επεινασα γαρ και ουκ εδωκατε μοι φαγειν εδιψησα και ουκ εποτισατε με
Matthew 25:42 For I was an hungred, and ye gave me no meat: I was thirsty, and ye gave me no drink:
Matthew 25:43 ξενος ημην και ου συνηγαγετε με γυμνος και ου περιεβαλετε με ασθενης και εν φυλακη και ουκ επεσκεψασθε με
Matthew 25:43 I was a stranger, and ye took me not in: naked, and ye clothed me not: sick, and in prison, and ye visited me not.
Matthew 25:44 τοτε αποκριθησονται αυτω και αυτοι λεγοντες κυριε ποτε σε ειδομεν πεινωντα η διψωντα η ξενον η γυμνον η ασθενη η εν φυλακη και ου διηκονησαμεν σοι
Matthew 25:44 Then shall they also answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we thee an hungred, or athirst, or a stranger, or naked, or sick, or in prison, and did not minister unto thee?
Matthew 25:45 τοτε αποκριθησεται αυτοις λεγων αμην λεγω υμιν εφ οσον ουκ εποιησατε ενι τουτων των ελαχιστων ουδε εμοι εποιησατε
Matthew 25:45 Then shall he answer them, saying, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye did it not to one of the least of these, ye did it not to me.
Matthew 25:46 και απελευσονται ουτοι εις κολασιν αιωνιον οι δε δικαιοι εις ζωην αιωνιον
Matthew 25:46 And these shall go away into everlasting punishment: but the righteous into life eternal.
Matthew 26:1 και εγενετο οτε ετελεσεν ο ιησους παντας τους λογους τουτους ειπεν τοις μαθηταις αυτου
Matthew 26:1 And it came to pass, when Jesus had finished all these sayings, he said unto his disciples,
Matthew 26:2 οιδατε οτι μετα δυο ημερας το πασχα γινεται και ο υιος του ανθρωπου παραδιδοται εις το σταυρωθηναι
Matthew 26:2 Ye know that after two days is the feast of the passover, and the Son of man is betrayed to be crucified.
Matthew 26:3 τοτε συνηχθησαν οι αρχιερεις και οι γραμματεις και οι πρεσβυτεροι του λαου εις την αυλην του αρχιερεως του λεγομενου καιαφα
Matthew 26:3 Then assembled together the chief priests, and the scribes, and the elders of the people, unto the palace of the high priest, who was called Caiaphas,
Matthew 26:4 και συνεβουλευσαντο ινα τον ιησουν κρατησωσιν δολω και αποκτεινωσιν
Matthew 26:4 And consulted that they might take Jesus by subtilty, and kill him.
Matthew 26:5 ελεγον δε μη εν τη εορτη ινα μη θορυβος γενηται εν τω λαω
Matthew 26:5 But they said, Not on the feast day, lest there be an uproar among the people.
Matthew 26:6 του δε ιησου γενομενου εν βηθανια εν οικια σιμωνος του λεπρου
Matthew 26:6 Now when Jesus was in Bethany, in the house of Simon the leper,
Matthew 26:7 προσηλθεν αυτω γυνη αλαβαστρον μυρου εχουσα βαρυτιμου και κατεχεεν επι την κεφαλην αυτου ανακειμενου
Matthew 26:7 There came unto him a woman having an alabaster box of very precious ointment, and poured it on his head, as he sat at meat.
Matthew 26:8 ιδοντες δε οι μαθηται αυτου ηγανακτησαν λεγοντες εις τι η απωλεια αυτη
Matthew 26:8 But when his disciples saw it, they had indignation, saying, To what purpose is this waste?
Matthew 26:9 ηδυνατο γαρ τουτο το μυρον πραθηναι πολλου και δοθηναι πτωχοις
Matthew 26:9 For this ointment might have been sold for much, and given to the poor.
Matthew 26:10 γνους δε ο ιησους ειπεν αυτοις τι κοπους παρεχετε τη γυναικι εργον γαρ καλον ειργασατο εις εμε
Matthew 26:10 When Jesus understood it, he said unto them, Why trouble ye the woman? for she hath wrought a good work upon me.
Matthew 26:11 παντοτε γαρ τους πτωχους εχετε μεθ εαυτων εμε δε ου παντοτε εχετε
Matthew 26:11 For ye have the poor always with you; but me ye have not always.
Matthew 26:12 βαλουσα γαρ αυτη το μυρον τουτο επι του σωματος μου προς το ενταφιασαι με εποιησεν
Matthew 26:12 For in that she hath poured this ointment on my body, she did it for my burial.
Matthew 26:13 αμην λεγω υμιν οπου εαν κηρυχθη το ευαγγελιον τουτο εν ολω τω κοσμω λαληθησεται και ο εποιησεν αυτη εις μνημοσυνον αυτης
Matthew 26:13 Verily I say unto you, Wheresoever this gospel shall be preached in the whole world, there shall also this, that this woman hath done, be told for a memorial of her.
Matthew 26:14 τοτε πορευθεις εις των δωδεκα ο λεγομενος ιουδας ισκαριωτης προς τους αρχιερεις
Matthew 26:14 Then one of the twelve, called Judas Iscariot, went unto the chief priests,
Matthew 26:15 ειπεν τι θελετε μοι δουναι καγω υμιν παραδωσω αυτον οι δε εστησαν αυτω τριακοντα αργυρια
Matthew 26:15 And said unto them, What will ye give me, and I will deliver him unto you? And they covenanted with him for thirty pieces of silver.
Matthew 26:16 και απο τοτε εζητει ευκαιριαν ινα αυτον παραδω
Matthew 26:16 And from that time he sought opportunity to betray him.
Matthew 26:17 τη δε πρωτη των αζυμων προσηλθον οι μαθηται τω ιησου λεγοντες αυτω που θελεις ετοιμασωμεν σοι φαγειν το πασχα
Matthew 26:17 Now the first day of the feast of unleavened bread the disciples came to Jesus, saying unto him, Where wilt thou that we prepare for thee to eat the passover?
Matthew 26:18 ο δε ειπεν υπαγετε εις την πολιν προς τον δεινα και ειπατε αυτω ο διδασκαλος λεγει ο καιρος μου εγγυς εστιν προς σε ποιω το πασχα μετα των μαθητων μου
Matthew 26:18 And he said, Go into the city to such a man, and say unto him, The Master saith, My time is at hand; I will keep the passover at thy house with my disciples.
Matthew 26:19 και εποιησαν οι μαθηται ως συνεταξεν αυτοις ο ιησους και ητοιμασαν το πασχα
Matthew 26:19 And the disciples did as Jesus had appointed them; and they made ready the passover.
Matthew 26:20 οψιας δε γενομενης ανεκειτο μετα των δωδεκα
Matthew 26:20 Now when the even was come, he sat down with the twelve.
Matthew 26:21 και εσθιοντων αυτων ειπεν αμην λεγω υμιν οτι εις εξ υμων παραδωσει με
Matthew 26:21 And as they did eat, he said, Verily I say unto you, that one of you shall betray me.
Matthew 26:22 και λυπουμενοι σφοδρα ηρξαντο λεγειν αυτω εκαστος αυτων μητι εγω ειμι κυριε
Matthew 26:22 And they were exceeding sorrowful, and began every one of them to say unto him, Lord, is it I?
Matthew 26:23 ο δε αποκριθεις ειπεν ο εμβαψας μετ εμου εν τω τρυβλιω την χειρα ουτος με παραδωσει
Matthew 26:23 And he answered and said, He that dippeth his hand with me in the dish, the same shall betray me.
Matthew 26:24 ο μεν υιος του ανθρωπου υπαγει καθως γεγραπται περι αυτου ουαι δε τω ανθρωπω εκεινω δι ου ο υιος του ανθρωπου παραδιδοται καλον ην αυτω ει ουκ εγεννηθη ο ανθρωπος εκεινος
Matthew 26:24 The Son of man goeth as it is written of him: but woe unto that man by whom the Son of man is betrayed! it had been good for that man if he had not been born.
Matthew 26:25 αποκριθεις δε ιουδας ο παραδιδους αυτον ειπεν μητι εγω ειμι ραββι λεγει αυτω συ ειπας
Matthew 26:25 Then Judas, which betrayed him, answered and said, Master, is it I? He said unto him, Thou hast said.
Matthew 26:26 εσθιοντων δε αυτων λαβων ο ιησους τον αρτον και ευλογησας εκλασεν και εδιδου τοις μαθηταις και ειπεν λαβετε φαγετε τουτο εστιν το σωμα μου
Matthew 26:26 And as they were eating, Jesus took bread, and blessed it, and brake it, and gave it to the disciples, and said, Take, eat; this is my body.
Matthew 26:27 και λαβων το ποτηριον και ευχαριστησας εδωκεν αυτοις λεγων πιετε εξ αυτου παντες
Matthew 26:27 And he took the cup, and gave thanks, and gave it to them, saying, Drink ye all of it;
Matthew 26:28 τουτο γαρ εστιν το αιμα μου το της καινης διαθηκης το περι πολλων εκχυνομενον εις αφεσιν αμαρτιων
Matthew 26:28 For this is my blood of the new testament, which is shed for many for the remission of sins.
Matthew 26:29 λεγω δε υμιν οτι ου μη πιω απ αρτι εκ τουτου του γεννηματος της αμπελου εως της ημερας εκεινης οταν αυτο πινω μεθ υμων καινον εν τη βασιλεια του πατρος μου
Matthew 26:29 But I say unto you, I will not drink henceforth of this fruit of the vine, until that day when I drink it new with you in my Father's kingdom.
Matthew 26:30 και υμνησαντες εξηλθον εις το ορος των ελαιων
Matthew 26:30 And when they had sung an hymn, they went out into the mount of Olives.
Matthew 26:31 τοτε λεγει αυτοις ο ιησους παντες υμεις σκανδαλισθησεσθε εν εμοι εν τη νυκτι ταυτη γεγραπται γαρ παταξω τον ποιμενα και διασκορπισθησεται τα προβατα της ποιμνης
Matthew 26:31 Then saith Jesus unto them, All ye shall be offended because of me this night: for it is written, I will smite the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock shall be scattered abroad.
Matthew 26:32 μετα δε το εγερθηναι με προαξω υμας εις την γαλιλαιαν
Matthew 26:32 But after I am risen again, I will go before you into Galilee.
Matthew 26:33 αποκριθεις δε ο πετρος ειπεν αυτω ει και παντες σκανδαλισθησονται εν σοι εγω ουδεποτε σκανδαλισθησομαι
Matthew 26:33 Peter answered and said unto him, Though all men shall be offended because of thee, yet will I never be offended.
Matthew 26:34 εφη αυτω ο ιησους αμην λεγω σοι οτι εν ταυτη τη νυκτι πριν αλεκτορα φωνησαι τρις απαρνηση με
Matthew 26:34 Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, That this night, before the cock crow, thou shalt deny me thrice.
Matthew 26:35 λεγει αυτω ο πετρος καν δεη με συν σοι αποθανειν ου μη σε απαρνησομαι ομοιως και παντες οι μαθηται ειπον
Matthew 26:35 Peter said unto him, Though I should die with thee, yet will I not deny thee. Likewise also said all the disciples.
Matthew 26:36 τοτε ερχεται μετ αυτων ο ιησους εις χωριον λεγομενον γεθσημανη και λεγει τοις μαθηταις καθισατε αυτου εως ου απελθων προσευξωμαι εκει
Matthew 26:36 Then cometh Jesus with them unto a place called Gethsemane, and saith unto the disciples, Sit ye here, while I go and pray yonder.
Matthew 26:37 και παραλαβων τον πετρον και τους δυο υιους ζεβεδαιου ηρξατο λυπεισθαι και αδημονειν
Matthew 26:37 And he took with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, and began to be sorrowful and very heavy.
Matthew 26:38 τοτε λεγει αυτοις περιλυπος εστιν η ψυχη μου εως θανατου μεινατε ωδε και γρηγορειτε μετ εμου
Matthew 26:38 Then saith he unto them, My soul is exceeding sorrowful, even unto death: tarry ye here, and watch with me.
Matthew 26:39 και προελθων μικρον επεσεν επι προσωπον αυτου προσευχομενος και λεγων πατερ μου ει δυνατον εστιν παρελθετω απ εμου το ποτηριον τουτο πλην ουχ ως εγω θελω αλλ ως συ
Matthew 26:39 And he went a little farther, and fell on his face, and prayed, saying, O my Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me: nevertheless not as I will, but as thou wilt.
Matthew 26:40 και ερχεται προς τους μαθητας και ευρισκει αυτους καθευδοντας και λεγει τω πετρω ουτως ουκ ισχυσατε μιαν ωραν γρηγορησαι μετ εμου
Matthew 26:40 And he cometh unto the disciples, and findeth them asleep, and saith unto Peter, What, could ye not watch with me one hour?
Matthew 26:41 γρηγορειτε και προσευχεσθε ινα μη εισελθητε εις πειρασμον το μεν πνευμα προθυμον η δε σαρξ ασθενης
Matthew 26:41 Watch and pray, that ye enter not into temptation: the spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak.
Matthew 26:42 παλιν εκ δευτερου απελθων προσηυξατο λεγων πατερ μου ει ου δυναται τουτο το ποτηριον παρελθειν απ εμου εαν μη αυτο πιω γενηθητω το θελημα σου
Matthew 26:42 He went away again the second time, and prayed, saying, O my Father, if this cup may not pass away from me, except I drink it, thy will be done.
Matthew 26:43 και ελθων ευρισκει αυτους παλιν καθευδοντας ησαν γαρ αυτων οι οφθαλμοι βεβαρημενοι
Matthew 26:43 And he came and found them asleep again: for their eyes were heavy.
Matthew 26:44 και αφεις αυτους απελθων παλιν προσηυξατο εκ τριτου τον αυτον λογον ειπων
Matthew 26:44 And he left them, and went away again, and prayed the third time, saying the same words.
Matthew 26:45 τοτε ερχεται προς τους μαθητας αυτου και λεγει αυτοις καθευδετε το λοιπον και αναπαυεσθε ιδου ηγγικεν η ωρα και ο υιος του ανθρωπου παραδιδοται εις χειρας αμαρτωλων
Matthew 26:45 Then cometh he to his disciples, and saith unto them, Sleep on now, and take your rest: behold, the hour is at hand, and the Son of man is betrayed into the hands of sinners.
Matthew 26:46 εγειρεσθε αγωμεν ιδου ηγγικεν ο παραδιδους με
Matthew 26:46 Rise, let us be going: behold, he is at hand that doth betray me.
Matthew 26:47 και ετι αυτου λαλουντος ιδου ιουδας εις των δωδεκα ηλθεν και μετ αυτου οχλος πολυς μετα μαχαιρων και ξυλων απο των αρχιερεων και πρεσβυτερων του λαου
Matthew 26:47 And while he yet spake, lo, Judas, one of the twelve, came, and with him a great multitude with swords and staves, from the chief priests and elders of the people.
Matthew 26:48 ο δε παραδιδους αυτον εδωκεν αυτοις σημειον λεγων ον αν φιλησω αυτος εστιν κρατησατε αυτον
Matthew 26:48 Now he that betrayed him gave them a sign, saying, Whomsoever I shall kiss, that same is he: hold him fast.
Matthew 26:49 και ευθεως προσελθων τω ιησου ειπεν χαιρε ραββι και κατεφιλησεν αυτον
Matthew 26:49 And forthwith he came to Jesus, and said, Hail, master; and kissed him.
Matthew 26:50 ο δε ιησους ειπεν αυτω εταιρε εφ ω παρει τοτε προσελθοντες επεβαλον τας χειρας επι τον ιησουν και εκρατησαν αυτον
Matthew 26:50 And Jesus said unto him, Friend, wherefore art thou come? Then came they, and laid hands on Jesus and took him.
Matthew 26:51 και ιδου εις των μετα ιησου εκτεινας την χειρα απεσπασεν την μαχαιραν αυτου και παταξας τον δουλον του αρχιερεως αφειλεν αυτου το ωτιον
Matthew 26:51 And, behold, one of them which were with Jesus stretched out his hand, and drew his sword, and struck a servant of the high priest's, and smote off his ear.
Matthew 26:52 τοτε λεγει αυτω ο ιησους αποστρεψον σου την μαχαιραν εις τον τοπον αυτης παντες γαρ οι λαβοντες μαχαιραν εν μαχαιρα απολουνται
Matthew 26:52 Then said Jesus unto him, Put up again thy sword into his place: for all they that take the sword shall perish with the sword.
Matthew 26:53 η δοκεις οτι ου δυναμαι αρτι παρακαλεσαι τον πατερα μου και παραστησει μοι πλειους η δωδεκα λεγεωνας αγγελων
Matthew 26:53 Thinkest thou that I cannot now pray to my Father, and he shall presently give me more than twelve legions of angels?
Matthew 26:54 πως ουν πληρωθωσιν αι γραφαι οτι ουτως δει γενεσθαι
Matthew 26:54 But how then shall the scriptures be fulfilled, that thus it must be?
Matthew 26:55 εν εκεινη τη ωρα ειπεν ο ιησους τοις οχλοις ως επι ληστην εξηλθετε μετα μαχαιρων και ξυλων συλλαβειν με καθ ημεραν προς υμας εκαθεζομην διδασκων εν τω ιερω και ουκ εκρατησατε με
Matthew 26:55 In that same hour said Jesus to the multitudes, Are ye come out as against a thief with swords and staves for to take me?  I sat daily with you teaching in the temple, and ye laid no hold on me.
Matthew 26:56 τουτο δε ολον γεγονεν ινα πληρωθωσιν αι γραφαι των προφητων τοτε οι μαθηται παντες αφεντες αυτον εφυγον
Matthew 26:56 But all this was done, that the scriptures of the prophets might be fulfilled. Then all the disciples forsook him, and fled.
Matthew 26:57 οι δε κρατησαντες τον ιησουν απηγαγον προς καιαφαν τον αρχιερεα οπου οι γραμματεις και οι πρεσβυτεροι συνηχθησαν
Matthew 26:57 And they that had laid hold on Jesus led him away to Caiaphas the high priest, where the scribes and the elders were assembled.
Matthew 26:58 ο δε πετρος ηκολουθει αυτω απο μακροθεν εως της αυλης του αρχιερεως και εισελθων εσω εκαθητο μετα των υπηρετων ιδειν το τελος
Matthew 26:58 But Peter followed him afar off unto the high priest's palace, and went in, and sat with the servants, to see the end.
Matthew 26:59 οι δε αρχιερεις και οι πρεσβυτεροι και το συνεδριον ολον εζητουν ψευδομαρτυριαν κατα του ιησου οπως αυτον θανατωσωσιν
Matthew 26:59 Now the chief priests, and elders, and all the council, sought false witness against Jesus, to put him to death;
Matthew 26:60 και ουχ ευρον και πολλων ψευδομαρτυρων προσελθοντων ουχ ευρον
Matthew 26:60 But found none: yea, though many false witnesses came, yet found they none. At the last came two false witnesses,
Matthew 26:61 υστερον δε προσελθοντες δυο ψευδομαρτυρες ειπον ουτος εφη δυναμαι καταλυσαι τον ναον του θεου και δια τριων ημερων οικοδομησαι αυτον
Matthew 26:61 And said, This fellow said, I am able to destroy the temple of God, and to build it in three days.
Matthew 26:62 και αναστας ο αρχιερευς ειπεν αυτω ουδεν αποκρινη τι ουτοι σου καταμαρτυρουσιν
Matthew 26:62 And the high priest arose, and said unto him, Answerest thou nothing? what is it which these witness against thee?
Matthew 26:63 ο δε ιησους εσιωπα και αποκριθεις ο αρχιερευς ειπεν αυτω εξορκιζω σε κατα του θεου του ζωντος ινα ημιν ειπης ει συ ει ο χριστος ο υιος του θεου
Matthew 26:63 But Jesus held his peace, And the high priest answered and said unto him, I adjure thee by the living God, that thou tell us whether thou be the Christ, the Son of God.
Matthew 26:64 λεγει αυτω ο ιησους συ ειπας πλην λεγω υμιν απ αρτι οψεσθε τον υιον του ανθρωπου καθημενον εκ δεξιων της δυναμεως και ερχομενον επι των νεφελων του ουρανου
Matthew 26:64 Jesus saith unto him, Thou hast said: nevertheless I say unto you, Hereafter shall ye see the Son of man sitting on the right hand of power, and coming in the clouds of heaven.
Matthew 26:65 τοτε ο αρχιερευς διερρηξεν τα ιματια αυτου λεγων οτι εβλασφημησεν τι ετι χρειαν εχομεν μαρτυρων ιδε νυν ηκουσατε την βλασφημιαν αυτου
Matthew 26:65 Then the high priest rent his clothes, saying, He hath spoken blasphemy; what further need have we of witnesses? behold, now ye have heard his blasphemy.
Matthew 26:66 τι υμιν δοκει οι δε αποκριθεντες ειπον ενοχος θανατου εστιν
Matthew 26:66 What think ye? They answered and said, He is guilty of death.
Matthew 26:67 τοτε ενεπτυσαν εις το προσωπον αυτου και εκολαφισαν αυτον οι δε ερραπισαν
Matthew 26:67 Then did they spit in his face, and buffeted him; and others smote him with the palms of their hands,
Matthew 26:68 λεγοντες προφητευσον ημιν χριστε τις εστιν ο παισας σε
Matthew 26:68 Saying, Prophesy unto us, thou Christ, Who is he that smote thee?
Matthew 26:69 ο δε πετρος εξω εκαθητο εν τη αυλη και προσηλθεν αυτω μια παιδισκη λεγουσα και συ ησθα μετα ιησου του γαλιλαιου
Matthew 26:69 Now Peter sat without in the palace: and a damsel came unto him, saying, Thou also wast with Jesus of Galilee.
Matthew 26:70 ο δε ηρνησατο εμπροσθεν παντων λεγων ουκ οιδα τι λεγεις
Matthew 26:70 But he denied before them all, saying, I know not what thou sayest.
Matthew 26:71 εξελθοντα δε αυτον εις τον πυλωνα ειδεν αυτον αλλη και λεγει τοις εκει και ουτος ην μετα ιησου του ναζωραιου
Matthew 26:71 And when he was gone out into the porch, another maid saw him, and said unto them that were there, This fellow was also with Jesus of Nazareth.
Matthew 26:72 και παλιν ηρνησατο μεθ ορκου οτι ουκ οιδα τον ανθρωπον
Matthew 26:72 And again he denied with an oath, I do not know the man.
Matthew 26:73 μετα μικρον δε προσελθοντες οι εστωτες ειπον τω πετρω αληθως και συ εξ αυτων ει και γαρ η λαλια σου δηλον σε ποιει
Matthew 26:73 And after a while came unto him they that stood by, and said to Peter, Surely thou also art one of them; for thy speech bewrayeth thee.
Matthew 26:74 τοτε ηρξατο καταναθεματιζειν και ομνυειν οτι ουκ οιδα τον ανθρωπον και ευθεως αλεκτωρ εφωνησεν
Matthew 26:74 Then began he to curse and to swear, saying, I know not the man. And immediately the cock crew.
Matthew 26:75 και εμνησθη ο πετρος του ρηματος του ιησου ειρηκοτος αυτω οτι πριν αλεκτορα φωνησαι τρις απαρνηση με και εξελθων εξω εκλαυσεν πικρως
Matthew 26:75 And Peter remembered the word of Jesus, which said unto him, Before the cock crow, thou shalt deny me thrice. And he went out, and wept bitterly.
Matthew 27:1 πρωιας δε γενομενης συμβουλιον ελαβον παντες οι αρχιερεις και οι πρεσβυτεροι του λαου κατα του ιησου ωστε θανατωσαι αυτον
Matthew 27:1 When the morning was come, all the chief priests and elders of the people took counsel against Jesus to put him to death:
Matthew 27:2 και δησαντες αυτον απηγαγον και παρεδωκαν αυτον ποντιω πιλατω τω ηγεμονι
Matthew 27:2 And when they had bound him, they led him away, and delivered him to Pontius Pilate the governor.
Matthew 27:3 τοτε ιδων ιουδας ο παραδιδους αυτον οτι κατεκριθη μεταμεληθεις απεστρεψεν τα τριακοντα αργυρια τοις αρχιερευσιν και τοις πρεσβυτεροις
Matthew 27:3 Then Judas, which had betrayed him, when he saw that he was condemned, repented himself, and brought again the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and elders,
Matthew 27:4 λεγων ημαρτον παραδους αιμα αθωον οι δε ειπον τι προς ημας συ οψει
Matthew 27:4 Saying, I have sinned in that I have betrayed the innocent blood. And they said, What is that to us? see thou to that.
Matthew 27:5 και ριψας τα αργυρια εν τω ναω ανεχωρησεν και απελθων απηγξατο
Matthew 27:5 And he cast down the pieces of silver in the temple, and departed, and went and hanged himself.
Matthew 27:6 οι δε αρχιερεις λαβοντες τα αργυρια ειπον ουκ εξεστιν βαλειν αυτα εις τον κορβαναν επει τιμη αιματος εστιν
Matthew 27:6 And the chief priests took the silver pieces, and said, It is not lawful for to put them into the treasury, because it is the price of blood.
Matthew 27:7 συμβουλιον δε λαβοντες ηγορασαν εξ αυτων τον αγρον του κεραμεως εις ταφην τοις ξενοις
Matthew 27:7 And they took counsel, and bought with them the potter's field, to bury strangers in.
Matthew 27:8 διο εκληθη ο αγρος εκεινος αγρος αιματος εως της σημερον
Matthew 27:8 Wherefore that field was called, The field of blood, unto this day.
Matthew 27:9 τοτε επληρωθη το ρηθεν δια ιερεμιου του προφητου λεγοντος και ελαβον τα τριακοντα αργυρια την τιμην του τετιμημενου ον ετιμησαντο απο υιων ισραηλ
Matthew 27:9 Then was fulfilled that which was spoken by Jeremy the prophet, saying, And they took the thirty pieces of silver, the price of him that was valued, whom they of the children of Israel did value;
Matthew 27:10 και εδωκαν αυτα εις τον αγρον του κεραμεως καθα συνεταξεν μοι κυριος
Matthew 27:10 And gave them for the potter's field, as the Lord appointed me.
Matthew 27:11 ο δε ιησους εστη εμπροσθεν του ηγεμονος και επηρωτησεν αυτον ο ηγεμων λεγων συ ει ο βασιλευς των ιουδαιων ο δε ιησους εφη αυτω συ λεγεις
Matthew 27:11 And Jesus stood before the governor: and the governor asked him, saying, Art thou the King of the Jews? And Jesus said unto him, Thou sayest.
Matthew 27:12 και εν τω κατηγορεισθαι αυτον υπο των αρχιερεων και των πρεσβυτερων ουδεν απεκρινατο
Matthew 27:12 And when he was accused of the chief priests and elders, he answered nothing.
Matthew 27:13 τοτε λεγει αυτω ο πιλατος ουκ ακουεις ποσα σου καταμαρτυρουσιν
Matthew 27:13 Then said Pilate unto him, Hearest thou not how many things they witness against thee?
Matthew 27:14 και ουκ απεκριθη αυτω προς ουδε εν ρημα ωστε θαυμαζειν τον ηγεμονα λιαν
Matthew 27:14 And he answered him to never a word; insomuch that the governor marvelled greatly.
Matthew 27:15 κατα δε εορτην ειωθει ο ηγεμων απολυειν ενα τω οχλω δεσμιον ον ηθελον
Matthew 27:15 Now at that feast the governor was wont to release unto the people a prisoner, whom they would.
Matthew 27:16 ειχον δε τοτε δεσμιον επισημον λεγομενον βαραββαν
Matthew 27:16 And they had then a notable prisoner, called Barabbas.
Matthew 27:17 συνηγμενων ουν αυτων ειπεν αυτοις ο πιλατος τινα θελετε απολυσω υμιν βαραββαν η ιησουν τον λεγομενον χριστον
Matthew 27:17 Therefore when they were gathered together, Pilate said unto them, Whom will ye that I release unto you? Barabbas, or Jesus which is called Christ?
Matthew 27:18 ηδει γαρ οτι δια φθονον παρεδωκαν αυτον
Matthew 27:18 For he knew that for envy they had delivered him.
Matthew 27:19 καθημενου δε αυτου επι του βηματος απεστειλεν προς αυτον η γυνη αυτου λεγουσα μηδεν σοι και τω δικαιω εκεινω πολλα γαρ επαθον σημερον κατ οναρ δι αυτον
Matthew 27:19 When he was set down on the judgment seat, his wife sent unto him, saying, Have thou nothing to do with that just man: for I have suffered many things this day in a dream because of him.
Matthew 27:20 οι δε αρχιερεις και οι πρεσβυτεροι επεισαν τους οχλους ινα αιτησωνται τον βαραββαν τον δε ιησουν απολεσωσιν
Matthew 27:20 But the chief priests and elders persuaded the multitude that they should ask Barabbas, and destroy Jesus.
Matthew 27:21 αποκριθεις δε ο ηγεμων ειπεν αυτοις τινα θελετε απο των δυο απολυσω υμιν οι δε ειπον βαραββαν
Matthew 27:21 The governor answered and said unto them, Whether of the twain will ye that I release unto you? They said, Barabbas.
Matthew 27:22 λεγει αυτοις ο πιλατος τι ουν ποιησω ιησουν τον λεγομενον χριστον λεγουσιν αυτω παντες σταυρωθητω
Matthew 27:22 Pilate saith unto them, What shall I do then with Jesus which is called Christ? They all say unto him, Let him be crucified.
Matthew 27:23 ο δε ηγεμων εφη τι γαρ κακον εποιησεν οι δε περισσως εκραζον λεγοντες σταυρωθητω
Matthew 27:23 And the governor said, Why, what evil hath he done? But they cried out the more, saying, Let him be crucified.
Matthew 27:24 ιδων δε ο πιλατος οτι ουδεν ωφελει αλλα μαλλον θορυβος γινεται λαβων υδωρ απενιψατο τας χειρας απεναντι του οχλου λεγων αθωος ειμι απο του αιματος του δικαιου τουτου υμεις οψεσθε
Matthew 27:24 When Pilate saw that he could prevail nothing, but that rather a tumult was made, he took water, and washed his hands before the multitude, saying, I am innocent of the blood of this just person: see ye to it.
Matthew 27:25 και αποκριθεις πας ο λαος ειπεν το αιμα αυτου εφ ημας και επι τα τεκνα ημων
Matthew 27:25 Then answered all the people, and said, His blood be on us, and on our children.
Matthew 27:26 τοτε απελυσεν αυτοις τον βαραββαν τον δε ιησουν φραγελλωσας παρεδωκεν ινα σταυρωθη
Matthew 27:26 Then released he Barabbas unto them: and when he had scourged Jesus, he delivered him to be crucified.
Matthew 27:27 τοτε οι στρατιωται του ηγεμονος παραλαβοντες τον ιησουν εις το πραιτωριον συνηγαγον επ αυτον ολην την σπειραν
Matthew 27:27 Then the soldiers of the governor took Jesus into the common hall, and gathered unto him the whole band of soldiers.
Matthew 27:28 και εκδυσαντες αυτον περιεθηκαν αυτω χλαμυδα κοκκινην
Matthew 27:28 And they stripped him, and put on him a scarlet robe.
Matthew 27:29 και πλεξαντες στεφανον εξ ακανθων επεθηκαν επι την κεφαλην αυτου και καλαμον επι την δεξιαν αυτου και γονυπετησαντες εμπροσθεν αυτου ενεπαιζον αυτω λεγοντες χαιρε ο βασιλευς των ιουδαιων
Matthew 27:29 And when they had platted a crown of thorns, they put it upon his head, and a reed in his right hand: and they bowed the knee before him, and mocked him, saying, Hail, King of the Jews!
Matthew 27:30 και εμπτυσαντες εις αυτον ελαβον τον καλαμον και ετυπτον εις την κεφαλην αυτου
Matthew 27:30 And they spit upon him, and took the reed, and smote him on the head.
Matthew 27:31 και οτε ενεπαιξαν αυτω εξεδυσαν αυτον την χλαμυδα και ενεδυσαν αυτον τα ιματια αυτου και απηγαγον αυτον εις το σταυρωσαι
Matthew 27:31 And after that they had mocked him, they took the robe off from him, and put his own raiment on him, and led him away to crucify him.
Matthew 27:32 εξερχομενοι δε ευρον ανθρωπον κυρηναιον ονοματι σιμωνα τουτον ηγγαρευσαν ινα αρη τον σταυρον αυτου
Matthew 27:32 And as they came out, they found a man of Cyrene, Simon by name: him they compelled to bear his cross.
Matthew 27:33 και ελθοντες εις τοπον λεγομενον γολγοθα ος εστιν λεγομενος κρανιου τοπος
Matthew 27:33 And when they were come unto a place called Golgotha, that is to say, a place of a skull,
Matthew 27:34 εδωκαν αυτω πιειν οξος μετα χολης μεμιγμενον και γευσαμενος ουκ ηθελεν πιειν
Matthew 27:34 They gave him vinegar to drink mingled with gall: and when he had tasted thereof, he would not drink.
Matthew 27:35 σταυρωσαντες δε αυτον διεμερισαντο τα ιματια αυτου βαλλοντες κληρον ινα πληρωθη το ρηθεν υπο του προφητου διεμερισαντο τα ιματια μου εαυτοις και επι τον ιματισμον μου εβαλον κληρον
Matthew 27:35 And they crucified him, and parted his garments, casting lots: that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophet, They parted my garments among them, and upon my vesture did they cast lots.
Matthew 27:36 και καθημενοι ετηρουν αυτον εκει
Matthew 27:36 And sitting down they watched him there;
Matthew 27:37 και επεθηκαν επανω της κεφαλης αυτου την αιτιαν αυτου γεγραμμενην ουτος εστιν ιησους ο βασιλευς των ιουδαιων
Matthew 27:37 And set up over his head his accusation written, THIS IS JESUS THE KING OF THE JEWS.
Matthew 27:38 τοτε σταυρουνται συν αυτω δυο λησται εις εκ δεξιων και εις εξ ευωνυμων
Matthew 27:38 Then were there two thieves crucified with him, one on the right hand, and another on the left.
Matthew 27:39 οι δε παραπορευομενοι εβλασφημουν αυτον κινουντες τας κεφαλας αυτων
Matthew 27:39 And they that passed by reviled him, wagging their heads,
Matthew 27:40 και λεγοντες ο καταλυων τον ναον και εν τρισιν ημεραις οικοδομων σωσον σεαυτον ει υιος ει του θεου καταβηθι απο του σταυρου
Matthew 27:40 And saying, Thou that destroyest the temple, and buildest it in three days, save thyself. If thou be the Son of God, come down from the cross.
Matthew 27:41 ομοιως δε και οι αρχιερεις εμπαιζοντες μετα των γραμματεων και πρεσβυτερων ελεγον
Matthew 27:41 Likewise also the chief priests mocking him, with the scribes and elders, said,
Matthew 27:42 αλλους εσωσεν εαυτον ου δυναται σωσαι ει βασιλευς ισραηλ εστιν καταβατω νυν απο του σταυρου και πιστευσομεν αυτω
Matthew 27:42 He saved others; himself he cannot save. If he be the King of Israel, let him now come down from the cross, and we will believe him.
Matthew 27:43 πεποιθεν επι τον θεον ρυσασθω νυν αυτον ει θελει αυτον ειπεν γαρ οτι θεου ειμι υιος
Matthew 27:43 He trusted in God; let him deliver him now, if he will have him: for he said, I am the Son of God.
Matthew 27:44 το δ αυτο και οι λησται οι συσταυρωθεντες αυτω ωνειδιζον αυτω
Matthew 27:44 The thieves also, which were crucified with him, cast the same in his teeth.
Matthew 27:45 απο δε εκτης ωρας σκοτος εγενετο επι πασαν την γην εως ωρας εννατης
Matthew 27:45 Now from the sixth hour there was darkness over all the land unto the ninth hour.
Matthew 27:46 περι δε την εννατην ωραν ανεβοησεν ο ιησους φωνη μεγαλη λεγων ηλι ηλι λαμα σαβαχθανι τουτ εστιν θεε μου θεε μου ινατι με εγκατελιπες
Matthew 27:46 And about the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying, Eli, Eli, lama sabachthani? that is to say, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?
Matthew 27:47 τινες δε των εκει εστωτων ακουσαντες ελεγον οτι ηλιαν φωνει ουτος
Matthew 27:47 Some of them that stood there, when they heard that, said, This man calleth for Elias.
Matthew 27:48 και ευθεως δραμων εις εξ αυτων και λαβων σπογγον πλησας τε οξους και περιθεις καλαμω εποτιζεν αυτον
Matthew 27:48 And straightway one of them ran, and took a spunge, and filled it with vinegar, and put it on a reed, and gave him to drink.
Matthew 27:49 οι δε λοιποι ελεγον αφες ιδωμεν ει ερχεται ηλιας σωσων αυτον
Matthew 27:49 The rest said, Let be, let us see whether Elias will come to save him.
Matthew 27:50 ο δε ιησους παλιν κραξας φωνη μεγαλη αφηκεν το πνευμα
Matthew 27:50 Jesus, when he had cried again with a loud voice, yielded up the ghost.
Matthew 27:51 και ιδου το καταπετασμα του ναου εσχισθη εις δυο απο ανωθεν εως κατω και η γη εσεισθη και αι πετραι εσχισθησαν
Matthew 27:51 And, behold, the veil of the temple was rent in twain from the top to the bottom; and the earth did quake, and the rocks rent;
Matthew 27:52 και τα μνημεια ανεωχθησαν και πολλα σωματα των κεκοιμημενων αγιων ηγερθη
Matthew 27:52 And the graves were opened; and many bodies of the saints which slept arose,
Matthew 27:53 και εξελθοντες εκ των μνημειων μετα την εγερσιν αυτου εισηλθον εις την αγιαν πολιν και ενεφανισθησαν πολλοις
Matthew 27:53 And came out of the graves after his resurrection, and went into the holy city, and appeared unto many.
Matthew 27:54 ο δε εκατονταρχος και οι μετ αυτου τηρουντες τον ιησουν ιδοντες τον σεισμον και τα γενομενα εφοβηθησαν σφοδρα λεγοντες αληθως θεου υιος ην ουτος
Matthew 27:54 Now when the centurion, and they that were with him, watching Jesus, saw the earthquake, and those things that were done, they feared greatly, saying, Truly this was the Son of God.
Matthew 27:55 ησαν δε εκει γυναικες πολλαι απο μακροθεν θεωρουσαι αιτινες ηκολουθησαν τω ιησου απο της γαλιλαιας διακονουσαι αυτω
Matthew 27:55 And many women were there beholding afar off, which followed Jesus from Galilee, ministering unto him:
Matthew 27:56 εν αις ην μαρια η μαγδαληνη και μαρια η του ιακωβου και ιωση μητηρ και η μητηρ των υιων ζεβεδαιου
Matthew 27:56 Among which was Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James and Joses, and the mother of Zebedees children.
Matthew 27:57 οψιας δε γενομενης ηλθεν ανθρωπος πλουσιος απο αριμαθαιας τουνομα ιωσηφ ος και αυτος εμαθητευσεν τω ιησου
Matthew 27:57 When the even was come, there came a rich man of Arimathaea, named Joseph, who also himself was Jesus' disciple:
Matthew 27:58 ουτος προσελθων τω πιλατω ητησατο το σωμα του ιησου τοτε ο πιλατος εκελευσεν αποδοθηναι το σωμα
Matthew 27:58 He went to Pilate, and begged the body of Jesus. Then Pilate commanded the body to be delivered.
Matthew 27:59 και λαβων το σωμα ο ιωσηφ ενετυλιξεν αυτο σινδονι καθαρα
Matthew 27:59 And when Joseph had taken the body, he wrapped it in a clean linen cloth,
Matthew 27:60 και εθηκεν αυτο εν τω καινω αυτου μνημειω ο ελατομησεν εν τη πετρα και προσκυλισας λιθον μεγαν τη θυρα του μνημειου απηλθεν
Matthew 27:60 And laid it in his own new tomb, which he had hewn out in the rock: and he rolled a great stone to the door of the sepulchre, and departed.
Matthew 27:61 ην δε εκει μαρια η μαγδαληνη και η αλλη μαρια καθημεναι απεναντι του ταφου
Matthew 27:61 And there was Mary Magdalene, and the other Mary, sitting over against the sepulchre.
Matthew 27:62 τη δε επαυριον ητις εστιν μετα την παρασκευην συνηχθησαν οι αρχιερεις και οι φαρισαιοι προς πιλατον
Matthew 27:62 Now the next day, that followed the day of the preparation, the chief priests and Pharisees came together unto Pilate,
Matthew 27:63 λεγοντες κυριε εμνησθημεν οτι εκεινος ο πλανος ειπεν ετι ζων μετα τρεις ημερας εγειρομαι
Matthew 27:63 Saying, Sir, we remember that that deceiver said, while he was yet alive, After three days I will rise again.
Matthew 27:64 κελευσον ουν ασφαλισθηναι τον ταφον εως της τριτης ημερας μηποτε ελθοντες οι μαθηται αυτου νυκτος κλεψωσιν αυτον και ειπωσιν τω λαω ηγερθη απο των νεκρων και εσται η εσχατη πλανη χειρων της πρωτης
Matthew 27:64 Command therefore that the sepulchre be made sure until the third day, lest his disciples come by night, and steal him away, and say unto the people, He is risen from the dead: so the last error shall be worse than the first.
Matthew 27:65 εφη δε αυτοις ο πιλατος εχετε κουστωδιαν υπαγετε ασφαλισασθε ως οιδατε
Matthew 27:65 Pilate said unto them, Ye have a watch: go your way, make it as sure as ye can.
Matthew 27:66 οι δε πορευθεντες ησφαλισαντο τον ταφον σφραγισαντες τον λιθον μετα της κουστωδιας
Matthew 27:66 So they went, and made the sepulchre sure, sealing the stone, and setting a watch.
Matthew 28:1 οψε δε σαββατων τη επιφωσκουση εις μιαν σαββατων ηλθεν μαρια η μαγδαληνη και η αλλη μαρια θεωρησαι τον ταφον
Matthew 28:1 In the end of the sabbath, as it began to dawn toward the first day of the week, came Mary Magdalene and the other Mary to see the sepulchre.
Matthew 28:2 και ιδου σεισμος εγενετο μεγας αγγελος γαρ κυριου καταβας εξ ουρανου προσελθων απεκυλισεν τον λιθον απο της θυρας και εκαθητο επανω αυτου
Matthew 28:2 And, behold, there was a great earthquake: for the angel of the Lord descended from heaven, and came and rolled back the stone from the door, and sat upon it.
Matthew 28:3 ην δε η ιδεα αυτου ως αστραπη και το ενδυμα αυτου λευκον ωσει χιων
Matthew 28:3 His countenance was like lightning, and his raiment white as snow:
Matthew 28:4 απο δε του φοβου αυτου εσεισθησαν οι τηρουντες και εγενοντο ωσει νεκροι
Matthew 28:4 And for fear of him the keepers did shake, and became as dead men.
Matthew 28:5 αποκριθεις δε ο αγγελος ειπεν ταις γυναιξιν μη φοβεισθε υμεις οιδα γαρ οτι ιησουν τον εσταυρωμενον ζητειτε
Matthew 28:5 And the angel answered and said unto the women, Fear not ye: for I know that ye seek Jesus, which was crucified.
Matthew 28:6 ουκ εστιν ωδε ηγερθη γαρ καθως ειπεν δευτε ιδετε τον τοπον οπου εκειτο ο κυριος
Matthew 28:6 He is not here: for he is risen, as he said. Come, see the place where the Lord lay.
Matthew 28:7 και ταχυ πορευθεισαι ειπατε τοις μαθηταις αυτου οτι ηγερθη απο των νεκρων και ιδου προαγει υμας εις την γαλιλαιαν εκει αυτον οψεσθε ιδου ειπον υμιν
Matthew 28:7 And go quickly, and tell his disciples that he is risen from the dead; and, behold, he goeth before you into Galilee; there shall ye see him: lo, I have told you.
Matthew 28:8 και εξελθουσαι ταχυ απο του μνημειου μετα φοβου και χαρας μεγαλης εδραμον απαγγειλαι τοις μαθηταις αυτου
Matthew 28:8 And they departed quickly from the sepulchre with fear and great joy; and did run to bring his disciples word.
Matthew 28:9 ως δε επορευοντο απαγγειλαι τοις μαθηταις αυτου και ιδου ο ιησους απηντησεν αυταις λεγων χαιρετε αι δε προσελθουσαι εκρατησαν αυτου τους ποδας και προσεκυνησαν αυτω
Matthew 28:9 And as they went to tell his disciples, behold, Jesus met them, saying, All hail. And they came and held him by the feet, and worshipped him.
Matthew 28:10 τοτε λεγει αυταις ο ιησους μη φοβεισθε υπαγετε απαγγειλατε τοις αδελφοις μου ινα απελθωσιν εις την γαλιλαιαν κακει με οψονται
Matthew 28:10 Then said Jesus unto them, Be not afraid: go tell my brethren that they go into Galilee, and there shall they see me.
Matthew 28:11 πορευομενων δε αυτων ιδου τινες της κουστωδιας ελθοντες εις την πολιν απηγγειλαν τοις αρχιερευσιν απαντα τα γενομενα
Matthew 28:11 Now when they were going, behold, some of the watch came into the city, and shewed unto the chief priests all the things that were done.
Matthew 28:12 και συναχθεντες μετα των πρεσβυτερων συμβουλιον τε λαβοντες αργυρια ικανα εδωκαν τοις στρατιωταις
Matthew 28:12 And when they were assembled with the elders, and had taken counsel, they gave large money unto the soldiers,
Matthew 28:13 λεγοντες ειπατε οτι οι μαθηται αυτου νυκτος ελθοντες εκλεψαν αυτον ημων κοιμωμενων
Matthew 28:13 Saying, Say ye, His disciples came by night, and stole him away while we slept.
Matthew 28:14 και εαν ακουσθη τουτο επι του ηγεμονος ημεις πεισομεν αυτον και υμας αμεριμνους ποιησομεν
Matthew 28:14 And if this come to the governor's ears, we will persuade him, and secure you.
Matthew 28:15 οι δε λαβοντες τα αργυρια εποιησαν ως εδιδαχθησαν και διεφημισθη ο λογος ουτος παρα ιουδαιοις μεχρι της σημερον
Matthew 28:15 So they took the money, and did as they were taught: and this saying is commonly reported among the Jews until this day.
Matthew 28:16 οι δε ενδεκα μαθηται επορευθησαν εις την γαλιλαιαν εις το ορος ου εταξατο αυτοις ο ιησους
Matthew 28:16 Then the eleven disciples went away into Galilee, into a mountain where Jesus had appointed them.
Matthew 28:17 και ιδοντες αυτον προσεκυνησαν αυτω οι δε εδιστασαν
Matthew 28:17 And when they saw him, they worshipped him: but some doubted.
Matthew 28:18 και προσελθων ο ιησους ελαλησεν αυτοις λεγων εδοθη μοι πασα εξουσια εν ουρανω και επι γης
Matthew 28:18 And Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth.
Matthew 28:19 πορευθεντες ουν μαθητευσατε παντα τα εθνη βαπτιζοντες αυτους εις το ονομα του πατρος και του υιου και του αγιου πνευματος
Matthew 28:19 Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost:
Matthew 28:20 διδασκοντες αυτους τηρειν παντα οσα ενετειλαμην υμιν και ιδου εγω μεθ υμων ειμι πασας τας ημερας εως της συντελειας του αιωνος αμην
Matthew 28:20 Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you: and, lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world. Amen.
Mark 1:1 αρχη του ευαγγελιου ιησου χριστου υιου του θεου
Mark 1:1 The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God;
Mark 1:2 ως γεγραπται εν τοις προφηταις ιδου εγω αποστελλω τον αγγελον μου προ προσωπου σου ος κατασκευασει την οδον σου εμπροσθεν σου
Mark 1:2 As it is written in the prophets, Behold, I send my messenger before thy face, which shall prepare thy way before thee.
Mark 1:3 φωνη βοωντος εν τη ερημω ετοιμασατε την οδον κυριου ευθειας ποιειτε τας τριβους αυτου
Mark 1:3 The voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make his paths straight.
Mark 1:4 εγενετο ιωαννης βαπτιζων εν τη ερημω και κηρυσσων βαπτισμα μετανοιας εις αφεσιν αμαρτιων
Mark 1:4 John did baptize in the wilderness, and preach the baptism of repentance for the remission of sins.
Mark 1:5 και εξεπορευετο προς αυτον πασα η ιουδαια χωρα και οι ιεροσολυμιται και εβαπτιζοντο παντες εν τω ιορδανη ποταμω υπ αυτου εξομολογουμενοι τας αμαρτιας αυτων
Mark 1:5 And there went out unto him all the land of Judaea, and they of Jerusalem, and were all baptized of him in the river of Jordan, confessing their sins.
Mark 1:6 ην δε ιωαννης ενδεδυμενος τριχας καμηλου και ζωνην δερματινην περι την οσφυν αυτου και εσθιων ακριδας και μελι αγριον
Mark 1:6 And John was clothed with camel's hair, and with a girdle of a skin about his loins; and he did eat locusts and wild honey;
Mark 1:7 και εκηρυσσεν λεγων ερχεται ο ισχυροτερος μου οπισω μου ου ουκ ειμι ικανος κυψας λυσαι τον ιμαντα των υποδηματων αυτου
Mark 1:7 And preached, saying, There cometh one mightier than I after me, the latchet of whose shoes I am not worthy to stoop down and unloose.
Mark 1:8 εγω μεν εβαπτισα υμας εν υδατι αυτος δε βαπτισει υμας εν πνευματι αγιω
Mark 1:8 I indeed have baptized you with water: but he shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost.
Mark 1:9 και εγενετο εν εκειναις ταις ημεραις ηλθεν ιησους απο ναζαρετ της γαλιλαιας και εβαπτισθη υπο ιωαννου εις τον ιορδανην
Mark 1:9 And it came to pass in those days, that Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee, and was baptized of John in Jordan.
Mark 1:10 και ευθεως αναβαινων απο του υδατος ειδεν σχιζομενους τους ουρανους και το πνευμα ωσει περιστεραν καταβαινον επ αυτον
Mark 1:10 And straightway coming up out of the water, he saw the heavens opened, and the Spirit like a dove descending upon him:
Mark 1:11 και φωνη εγενετο εκ των ουρανων συ ει ο υιος μου ο αγαπητος εν ω ευδοκησα
Mark 1:11 And there came a voice from heaven, saying, Thou art my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.
Mark 1:12 και ευθυς το πνευμα αυτον εκβαλλει εις την ερημον
Mark 1:12 And immediately the spirit driveth him into the wilderness.
Mark 1:13 και ην εκει εν τη ερημω ημερας τεσσαρακοντα πειραζομενος υπο του σατανα και ην μετα των θηριων και οι αγγελοι διηκονουν αυτω
Mark 1:13 And he was there in the wilderness forty days, tempted of Satan; and was with the wild beasts; and the angels ministered unto him.
Mark 1:14 μετα δε το παραδοθηναι τον ιωαννην ηλθεν ο ιησους εις την γαλιλαιαν κηρυσσων το ευαγγελιον της βασιλειας του θεου
Mark 1:14 Now after that John was put in prison, Jesus came into Galilee, preaching the gospel of the kingdom of God,
Mark 1:15 και λεγων οτι πεπληρωται ο καιρος και ηγγικεν η βασιλεια του θεου μετανοειτε και πιστευετε εν τω ευαγγελιω
Mark 1:15 And saying, The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand: repent ye, and believe the gospel.
Mark 1:16 περιπατων δε παρα την θαλασσαν της γαλιλαιας ειδεν σιμωνα και ανδρεαν τον αδελφον αυτου βαλλοντας αμφιβληστρον εν τη θαλασση ησαν γαρ αλιεις
Mark 1:16 Now as he walked by the sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and Andrew his brother casting a net into the sea: for they were fishers.
Mark 1:17 και ειπεν αυτοις ο ιησους δευτε οπισω μου και ποιησω υμας γενεσθαι αλιεις ανθρωπων
Mark 1:17 And Jesus said unto them, Come ye after me, and I will make you to become fishers of men.
Mark 1:18 και ευθεως αφεντες τα δικτυα αυτων ηκολουθησαν αυτω
Mark 1:18 And straightway they forsook their nets, and followed him.
Mark 1:19 και προβας εκειθεν ολιγον ειδεν ιακωβον τον του ζεβεδαιου και ιωαννην τον αδελφον αυτου και αυτους εν τω πλοιω καταρτιζοντας τα δικτυα
Mark 1:19 And when he had gone a little farther thence, he saw James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, who also were in the ship mending their nets.
Mark 1:20 και ευθεως εκαλεσεν αυτους και αφεντες τον πατερα αυτων ζεβεδαιον εν τω πλοιω μετα των μισθωτων απηλθον οπισω αυτου
Mark 1:20 And straightway he called them: and they left their father Zebedee in the ship with the hired servants, and went after him.
Mark 1:21 και εισπορευονται εις καπερναουμ και ευθεως τοις σαββασιν εισελθων εις την συναγωγην εδιδασκεν
Mark 1:21 And they went into Capernaum; and straightway on the sabbath day he entered into the synagogue, and taught.
Mark 1:22 και εξεπλησσοντο επι τη διδαχη αυτου ην γαρ διδασκων αυτους ως εξουσιαν εχων και ουχ ως οι γραμματεις
Mark 1:22 And they were astonished at his doctrine: for he taught them as one that had authority, and not as the scribes.
Mark 1:23 και ην εν τη συναγωγη αυτων ανθρωπος εν πνευματι ακαθαρτω και ανεκραξεν
Mark 1:23 And there was in their synagogue a man with an unclean spirit; and he cried out,
Mark 1:24 λεγων εα τι ημιν και σοι ιησου ναζαρηνε ηλθες απολεσαι ημας οιδα σε τις ει ο αγιος του θεου
Mark 1:24 Saying, Let us alone; what have we to do with thee, thou Jesus of Nazareth? art thou come to destroy us? I know thee who thou art, the Holy One of God.
Mark 1:25 και επετιμησεν αυτω ο ιησους λεγων φιμωθητι και εξελθε εξ αυτου
Mark 1:25 And Jesus rebuked him, saying, Hold thy peace, and come out of him.
Mark 1:26 και σπαραξαν αυτον το πνευμα το ακαθαρτον και κραξαν φωνη μεγαλη εξηλθεν εξ αυτου
Mark 1:26 And when the unclean spirit had torn him, and cried with a loud voice, he came out of him.
Mark 1:27 και εθαμβηθησαν παντες ωστε συζητειν προς αυτους λεγοντας τι εστιν τουτο τις η διδαχη η καινη αυτη οτι κατ εξουσιαν και τοις πνευμασιν τοις ακαθαρτοις επιτασσει και υπακουουσιν αυτω
Mark 1:27 And they were all amazed, insomuch that they questioned among themselves, saying, What thing is this? what new doctrine is this? for with authority commandeth he even the unclean spirits, and they do obey him.
Mark 1:28 εξηλθεν δε η ακοη αυτου ευθυς εις ολην την περιχωρον της γαλιλαιας
Mark 1:28 And immediately his fame spread abroad throughout all the region round about Galilee.
Mark 1:29 και ευθεως εκ της συναγωγης εξελθοντες ηλθον εις την οικιαν σιμωνος και ανδρεου μετα ιακωβου και ιωαννου
Mark 1:29 And forthwith, when they were come out of the synagogue, they entered into the house of Simon and Andrew, with James and John.
Mark 1:30 η δε πενθερα σιμωνος κατεκειτο πυρεσσουσα και ευθεως λεγουσιν αυτω περι αυτης
Mark 1:30 But Simon's wife's mother lay sick of a fever, and anon they tell him of her.
Mark 1:31 και προσελθων ηγειρεν αυτην κρατησας της χειρος αυτης και αφηκεν αυτην ο πυρετος ευθεως και διηκονει αυτοις
Mark 1:31 And he came and took her by the hand, and lifted her up; and immediately the fever left her, and she ministered unto them.
Mark 1:32 οψιας δε γενομενης οτε εδυ ο ηλιος εφερον προς αυτον παντας τους κακως εχοντας και τους δαιμονιζομενους
Mark 1:32 And at even, when the sun did set, they brought unto him all that were diseased, and them that were possessed with devils.
Mark 1:33 και η πολις ολη επισυνηγμενη ην προς την θυραν
Mark 1:33 And all the city was gathered together at the door.
Mark 1:34 και εθεραπευσεν πολλους κακως εχοντας ποικιλαις νοσοις και δαιμονια πολλα εξεβαλεν και ουκ ηφιεν λαλειν τα δαιμονια οτι ηδεισαν αυτον
Mark 1:34 And he healed many that were sick of divers diseases, and cast out many devils; and suffered not the devils to speak, because they knew him.
Mark 1:35 και πρωι εννυχον λιαν αναστας εξηλθεν και απηλθεν εις ερημον τοπον κακει προσηυχετο
Mark 1:35 And in the morning, rising up a great while before day, he went out, and departed into a solitary place, and there prayed.
Mark 1:36 και κατεδιωξαν αυτον ο σιμων και οι μετ αυτου
Mark 1:36 And Simon and they that were with him followed after him.
Mark 1:37 και ευροντες αυτον λεγουσιν αυτω οτι παντες ζητουσιν σε
Mark 1:37 And when they had found him, they said unto him, All men seek for thee.
Mark 1:38 και λεγει αυτοις αγωμεν εις τας εχομενας κωμοπολεις ινα κακει κηρυξω εις τουτο γαρ εξεληλυθα
Mark 1:38 And he said unto them, Let us go into the next towns, that I may preach there also: for therefore came I forth.
Mark 1:39 και ην κηρυσσων εν ταις συναγωγαις αυτων εις ολην την γαλιλαιαν και τα δαιμονια εκβαλλων
Mark 1:39 And he preached in their synagogues throughout all Galilee, and cast out devils.
Mark 1:40 και ερχεται προς αυτον λεπρος παρακαλων αυτον και γονυπετων αυτον και λεγων αυτω οτι εαν θελης δυνασαι με καθαρισαι
Mark 1:40 And there came a leper to him, beseeching him, and kneeling down to him, and saying unto him, If thou wilt, thou canst make me clean.
Mark 1:41 ο δε ιησους σπλαγχνισθεις εκτεινας την χειρα ηψατο αυτου και λεγει αυτω θελω καθαρισθητι
Mark 1:41 And Jesus, moved with compassion, put forth his hand, and touched him, and saith unto him, I will; be thou clean.
Mark 1:42 και ειποντος αυτου ευθεως απηλθεν απ αυτου η λεπρα και εκαθαρισθη
Mark 1:42 And as soon as he had spoken, immediately the leprosy departed from him, and he was cleansed.
Mark 1:43 και εμβριμησαμενος αυτω ευθεως εξεβαλεν αυτον
Mark 1:43 And he straitly charged him, and forthwith sent him away;
Mark 1:44 και λεγει αυτω ορα μηδενι μηδεν ειπης αλλ υπαγε σεαυτον δειξον τω ιερει και προσενεγκε περι του καθαρισμου σου α προσεταξεν μωσης εις μαρτυριον αυτοις
Mark 1:44 And saith unto him, See thou say nothing to any man: but go thy way, shew thyself to the priest, and offer for thy cleansing those things which Moses commanded, for a testimony unto them.
Mark 1:45 ο δε εξελθων ηρξατο κηρυσσειν πολλα και διαφημιζειν τον λογον ωστε μηκετι αυτον δυνασθαι φανερως εις πολιν εισελθειν αλλ εξω εν ερημοις τοποις ην και ηρχοντο προς αυτον πανταχοθεν
Mark 1:45 But he went out, and began to publish it much, and to blaze abroad the matter, insomuch that Jesus could no more openly enter into the city, but was without in desert places: and they came to him from every quarter.
Mark 2:1 και παλιν εισηλθεν εις καπερναουμ δι ημερων και ηκουσθη οτι εις οικον εστιν
Mark 2:1 And again he entered into Capernaum after some days; and it was noised that he was in the house.
Mark 2:2 και ευθεως συνηχθησαν πολλοι ωστε μηκετι χωρειν μηδε τα προς την θυραν και ελαλει αυτοις τον λογον
Mark 2:2 And straightway many were gathered together, insomuch that there was no room to receive them, no, not so much as about the door: and he preached the word unto them.
Mark 2:3 και ερχονται προς αυτον παραλυτικον φεροντες αιρομενον υπο τεσσαρων
Mark 2:3 And they come unto him, bringing one sick of the palsy, which was borne of four.
Mark 2:4 και μη δυναμενοι προσεγγισαι αυτω δια τον οχλον απεστεγασαν την στεγην οπου ην και εξορυξαντες χαλωσιν τον κραββατον εφ ω ο παραλυτικος κατεκειτο
Mark 2:4 And when they could not come nigh unto him for the press, they uncovered the roof where he was: and when they had broken it up, they let down the bed wherein the sick of the palsy lay.
Mark 2:5 ιδων δε ο ιησους την πιστιν αυτων λεγει τω παραλυτικω τεκνον αφεωνται σοι αι αμαρτιαι σου
Mark 2:5 When Jesus saw their faith, he said unto the sick of the palsy, Son, thy sins be forgiven thee.
Mark 2:6 ησαν δε τινες των γραμματεων εκει καθημενοι και διαλογιζομενοι εν ταις καρδιαις αυτων
Mark 2:6 But there was certain of the scribes sitting there, and reasoning in their hearts,
Mark 2:7 τι ουτος ουτως λαλει βλασφημιας τις δυναται αφιεναι αμαρτιας ει μη εις ο θεος
Mark 2:7 Why doth this man thus speak blasphemies? who can forgive sins but God only?
Mark 2:8 και ευθεως επιγνους ο ιησους τω πνευματι αυτου οτι ουτως διαλογιζονται εν εαυτοις ειπεν αυτοις τι ταυτα διαλογιζεσθε εν ταις καρδιαις υμων
Mark 2:8 And immediately when Jesus perceived in his spirit that they so reasoned within themselves, he said unto them, Why reason ye these things in your hearts?
Mark 2:9 τι εστιν ευκοπωτερον ειπειν τω παραλυτικω αφεωνται σοι αι αμαρτιαι η ειπειν εγειραι και αρον σου τον κραββατον και περιπατει
Mark 2:9 Whether is it easier to say to the sick of the palsy, Thy sins be forgiven thee; or to say, Arise, and take up thy bed, and walk?
Mark 2:10 ινα δε ειδητε οτι εξουσιαν εχει ο υιος του ανθρωπου αφιεναι επι της γης αμαρτιας λεγει τω παραλυτικω
Mark 2:10 But that ye may know that the Son of man hath power on earth to forgive sins, (he saith to the sick of the palsy,)
Mark 2:11 σοι λεγω εγειραι και αρον τον κραββατον σου και υπαγε εις τον οικον σου
Mark 2:11 I say unto thee, Arise, and take up thy bed, and go thy way into thine house.
Mark 2:12 και ηγερθη ευθεως και αρας τον κραββατον εξηλθεν εναντιον παντων ωστε εξιστασθαι παντας και δοξαζειν τον θεον λεγοντας οτι ουδεποτε ουτως ειδομεν
Mark 2:12 And immediately he arose, took up the bed, and went forth before them all; insomuch that they were all amazed, and glorified God, saying, We never saw it on this fashion.
Mark 2:13 και εξηλθεν παλιν παρα την θαλασσαν και πας ο οχλος ηρχετο προς αυτον και εδιδασκεν αυτους
Mark 2:13 And he went forth again by the sea side; and all the multitude resorted unto him, and he taught them.
Mark 2:14 και παραγων ειδεν λευιν τον του αλφαιου καθημενον επι το τελωνιον και λεγει αυτω ακολουθει μοι και αναστας ηκολουθησεν αυτω
Mark 2:14 And as he passed by, he saw Levi the son of Alphaeus sitting at the receipt of custom, and said unto him, Follow me. And he arose and followed him.
Mark 2:15 και εγενετο εν τω κατακεισθαι αυτον εν τη οικια αυτου και πολλοι τελωναι και αμαρτωλοι συνανεκειντο τω ιησου και τοις μαθηταις αυτου ησαν γαρ πολλοι και ηκολουθησαν αυτω
Mark 2:15 And it came to pass, that, as Jesus sat at meat in his house, many publicans and sinners sat also together with Jesus and his disciples: for there were many, and they followed him.
Mark 2:16 και οι γραμματεις και οι φαρισαιοι ιδοντες αυτον εσθιοντα μετα των τελωνων και αμαρτωλων ελεγον τοις μαθηταις αυτου τι οτι μετα των τελωνων και αμαρτωλων εσθιει και πινει
Mark 2:16 And when the scribes and Pharisees saw him eat with publicans and sinners, they said unto his disciples, How is it that he eateth and drinketh with publicans and sinners?
Mark 2:17 και ακουσας ο ιησους λεγει αυτοις ου χρειαν εχουσιν οι ισχυοντες ιατρου αλλ οι κακως εχοντες ουκ ηλθον καλεσαι δικαιους αλλα αμαρτωλους εις μετανοιαν
Mark 2:17 When Jesus heard it, he saith unto them, They that are whole have no need of the physician, but they that are sick: I came not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance.
Mark 2:18 και ησαν οι μαθηται ιωαννου και οι των φαρισαιων νηστευοντες και ερχονται και λεγουσιν αυτω διατι οι μαθηται ιωαννου και οι των φαρισαιων νηστευουσιν οι δε σοι μαθηται ου νηστευουσιν
Mark 2:18 And the disciples of John and of the Pharisees used to fast: and they come and say unto him, Why do the disciples of John and of the Pharisees fast, but thy disciples fast not?
Mark 2:19 και ειπεν αυτοις ο ιησους μη δυνανται οι υιοι του νυμφωνος εν ω ο νυμφιος μετ αυτων εστιν νηστευειν οσον χρονον μεθ εαυτων εχουσιν τον νυμφιον ου δυνανται νηστευειν
Mark 2:19 And Jesus said unto them, Can the children of the bridechamber fast, while the bridegroom is with them? as long as they have the bridegroom with them, they cannot fast.
Mark 2:20 ελευσονται δε ημεραι οταν απαρθη απ αυτων ο νυμφιος και τοτε νηστευσουσιν εν εκειναις ταις ημεραις
Mark 2:20 But the days will come, when the bridegroom shall be taken away from them, and then shall they fast in those days.
Mark 2:21 και ουδεις επιβλημα ρακους αγναφου επιρραπτει επι ιματιω παλαιω ει δε μη αιρει το πληρωμα αυτου το καινον του παλαιου και χειρον σχισμα γινεται
Mark 2:21 No man also seweth a piece of new cloth on an old garment: else the new piece that filled it up taketh away from the old, and the rent is made worse.
Mark 2:22 και ουδεις βαλλει οινον νεον εις ασκους παλαιους ει δε μη ρησσει ο οινος ο νεος τους ασκους και ο οινος εκχειται και οι ασκοι απολουνται αλλα οινον νεον εις ασκους καινους βλητεον
Mark 2:22 And no man putteth new wine into old bottles: else the new wine doth burst the bottles, and the wine is spilled, and the bottles will be marred: but new wine must be put into new bottles.
Mark 2:23 και εγενετο παραπορευεσθαι αυτον εν τοις σαββασιν δια των σποριμων και ηρξαντο οι μαθηται αυτου οδον ποιειν τιλλοντες τους σταχυας
Mark 2:23 And it came to pass, that he went through the corn fields on the sabbath day; and his disciples began, as they went, to pluck the ears of corn.
Mark 2:24 και οι φαρισαιοι ελεγον αυτω ιδε τι ποιουσιν εν τοις σαββασιν ο ουκ εξεστιν
Mark 2:24 And the Pharisees said unto him, Behold, why do they on the sabbath day that which is not lawful?
Mark 2:25 και αυτος ελεγεν αυτοις ουδεποτε ανεγνωτε τι εποιησεν δαβιδ οτε χρειαν εσχεν και επεινασεν αυτος και οι μετ αυτου
Mark 2:25 And he said unto them, Have ye never read what David did, when he had need, and was an hungred, he, and they that were with him?
Mark 2:26 πως εισηλθεν εις τον οικον του θεου επι αβιαθαρ του αρχιερεως και τους αρτους της προθεσεως εφαγεν ους ουκ εξεστιν φαγειν ει μη τοις ιερευσιν και εδωκεν και τοις συν αυτω ουσιν
Mark 2:26 How he went into the house of God in the days of Abiathar the high priest, and did eat the shewbread, which is not lawful to eat but for the priests, and gave also to them which were with him?
Mark 2:27 και ελεγεν αυτοις το σαββατον δια τον ανθρωπον εγενετο ουχ ο ανθρωπος δια το σαββατον
Mark 2:27 And he said unto them, The sabbath was made for man, and not man for the sabbath:
Mark 2:28 ωστε κυριος εστιν ο υιος του ανθρωπου και του σαββατου
Mark 2:28 Therefore the Son of man is Lord also of the sabbath.
Mark 3:1 και εισηλθεν παλιν εις την συναγωγην και ην εκει ανθρωπος εξηραμμενην εχων την χειρα
Mark 3:1 And he entered again into the synagogue; and there was a man there which had a withered hand.
Mark 3:2 και παρετηρουν αυτον ει τοις σαββασιν θεραπευσει αυτον ινα κατηγορησωσιν αυτου
Mark 3:2 And they watched him, whether he would heal him on the sabbath day; that they might accuse him.
Mark 3:3 και λεγει τω ανθρωπω τω εξηραμμενην εχοντι την χειρα εγειραι εις το μεσον
Mark 3:3 And he saith unto the man which had the withered hand, Stand forth.
Mark 3:4 και λεγει αυτοις εξεστιν τοις σαββασιν αγαθοποιησαι η κακοποιησαι ψυχην σωσαι η αποκτειναι οι δε εσιωπων
Mark 3:4 And he saith unto them, Is it lawful to do good on the sabbath days, or to do evil? to save life, or to kill? But they held their peace.
Mark 3:5 και περιβλεψαμενος αυτους μετ οργης συλλυπουμενος επι τη πωρωσει της καρδιας αυτων λεγει τω ανθρωπω εκτεινον την χειρα σου και εξετεινεν και αποκατεσταθη η χειρ αυτου υγιης ως η αλλη
Mark 3:5 And when he had looked round about on them with anger, being grieved for the hardness of their hearts, he saith unto the man, Stretch forth thine hand. And he stretched it out: and his hand was restored whole as the other.
Mark 3:6 και εξελθοντες οι φαρισαιοι ευθεως μετα των ηρωδιανων συμβουλιον εποιουν κατ αυτου οπως αυτον απολεσωσιν
Mark 3:6 And the Pharisees went forth, and straightway took counsel with the Herodians against him, how they might destroy him.
Mark 3:7 και ο ιησους ανεχωρησεν μετα των μαθητων αυτου προς την θαλασσαν και πολυ πληθος απο της γαλιλαιας ηκολουθησαν αυτω και απο της ιουδαιας
Mark 3:7 But Jesus withdrew himself with his disciples to the sea: and a great multitude from Galilee followed him, and from Judaea,
Mark 3:8 και απο ιεροσολυμων και απο της ιδουμαιας και περαν του ιορδανου και οι περι τυρον και σιδωνα πληθος πολυ ακουσαντες οσα εποιει ηλθον προς αυτον
Mark 3:8 And from Jerusalem, and from Idumaea, and from beyond Jordan; and they about Tyre and Sidon, a great multitude, when they had heard what great things he did, came unto him.
Mark 3:9 και ειπεν τοις μαθηταις αυτου ινα πλοιαριον προσκαρτερη αυτω δια τον οχλον ινα μη θλιβωσιν αυτον
Mark 3:9 And he spake to his disciples, that a small ship should wait on him because of the multitude, lest they should throng him.
Mark 3:10 πολλους γαρ εθεραπευσεν ωστε επιπιπτειν αυτω ινα αυτου αψωνται οσοι ειχον μαστιγας
Mark 3:10 For he had healed many; insomuch that they pressed upon him for to touch him, as many as had plagues.
Mark 3:11 και τα πνευματα τα ακαθαρτα οταν αυτον εθεωρει προσεπιπτεν αυτω και εκραζεν λεγοντα οτι συ ει ο υιος του θεου
Mark 3:11 And unclean spirits, when they saw him, fell down before him, and cried, saying, Thou art the Son of God.
Mark 3:12 και πολλα επετιμα αυτοις ινα μη αυτον φανερον ποιησωσιν
Mark 3:12 And he straitly charged them that they should not make him known.
Mark 3:13 και αναβαινει εις το ορος και προσκαλειται ους ηθελεν αυτος και απηλθον προς αυτον
Mark 3:13 And he goeth up into a mountain, and calleth unto him whom he would: and they came unto him.
Mark 3:14 και εποιησεν δωδεκα ινα ωσιν μετ αυτου και ινα αποστελλη αυτους κηρυσσειν
Mark 3:14 And he ordained twelve, that they should be with him, and that he might send them forth to preach,
Mark 3:15 και εχειν εξουσιαν θεραπευειν τας νοσους και εκβαλλειν τα δαιμονια
Mark 3:15 And to have power to heal sicknesses, and to cast out devils:
Mark 3:16 και επεθηκεν τω σιμωνι ονομα πετρον
Mark 3:16 And Simon he surnamed Peter;
Mark 3:17 και ιακωβον τον του ζεβεδαιου και ιωαννην τον αδελφον του ιακωβου και επεθηκεν αυτοις ονοματα βοανεργες ο εστιν υιοι βροντης
Mark 3:17 And James the son of Zebedee, and John the brother of James; and he surnamed them Boanerges, which is, The sons of thunder:
Mark 3:18 και ανδρεαν και φιλιππον και βαρθολομαιον και ματθαιον και θωμαν και ιακωβον τον του αλφαιου και θαδδαιον και σιμωνα τον κανανιτην
Mark 3:18 And Andrew, and Philip, and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and Thomas, and James the son of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus, and Simon the Canaanite,
Mark 3:19 και ιουδαν ισκαριωτην ος και παρεδωκεν αυτον και ερχονται εις οικον
Mark 3:19 And Judas Iscariot, which also betrayed him: and they went into an house.
Mark 3:20 και συνερχεται παλιν οχλος ωστε μη δυνασθαι αυτους μητε αρτον φαγειν
Mark 3:20 And the multitude cometh together again, so that they could not so much as eat bread.
Mark 3:21 και ακουσαντες οι παρ αυτου εξηλθον κρατησαι αυτον ελεγον γαρ οτι εξεστη
Mark 3:21 And when his friends heard of it, they went out to lay hold on him: for they said, He is beside himself.
Mark 3:22 και οι γραμματεις οι απο ιεροσολυμων καταβαντες ελεγον οτι βεελζεβουλ εχει και οτι εν τω αρχοντι των δαιμονιων εκβαλλει τα δαιμονια
Mark 3:22 And the scribes which came down from Jerusalem said, He hath Beelzebub, and by the prince of the devils casteth he out devils.
Mark 3:23 και προσκαλεσαμενος αυτους εν παραβολαις ελεγεν αυτοις πως δυναται σατανας σαταναν εκβαλλειν
Mark 3:23 And he called them unto him, and said unto them in parables, How can Satan cast out Satan?
Mark 3:24 και εαν βασιλεια εφ εαυτην μερισθη ου δυναται σταθηναι η βασιλεια εκεινη
Mark 3:24 And if a kingdom be divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand.
Mark 3:25 και εαν οικια εφ εαυτην μερισθη ου δυναται σταθηναι η οικια εκεινη
Mark 3:25 And if a house be divided against itself, that house cannot stand.
Mark 3:26 και ει ο σατανας ανεστη εφ εαυτον και μεμερισται ου δυναται σταθηναι αλλα τελος εχει
Mark 3:26 And if Satan rise up against himself, and be divided, he cannot stand, but hath an end.
Mark 3:27 ου δυναται ουδεις τα σκευη του ισχυρου εισελθων εις την οικιαν αυτου διαρπασαι εαν μη πρωτον τον ισχυρον δηση και τοτε την οικιαν αυτου διαρπασει
Mark 3:27 No man can enter into a strong man's house, and spoil his goods, except he will first bind the strong man; and then he will spoil his house.
Mark 3:28 αμην λεγω υμιν οτι παντα αφεθησεται τα αμαρτηματα τοις υιοις των ανθρωπων και βλασφημιαι οσας αν βλασφημησωσιν
Mark 3:28 Verily I say unto you, All sins shall be forgiven unto the sons of men, and blasphemies wherewith soever they shall blaspheme:
Mark 3:29 ος δ αν βλασφημηση εις το πνευμα το αγιον ουκ εχει αφεσιν εις τον αιωνα αλλ ενοχος εστιν αιωνιου κρισεως
Mark 3:29 But he that shall blaspheme against the Holy Ghost hath never forgiveness, but is in danger of eternal damnation.
Mark 3:30 οτι ελεγον πνευμα ακαθαρτον εχει
Mark 3:30 Because they said, He hath an unclean spirit.
Mark 3:31 ερχονται ουν οι αδελφοι και η μητηρ αυτου και εξω εστωτες απεστειλαν προς αυτον φωνουντες αυτον
Mark 3:31 There came then his brethren and his mother, and, standing without, sent unto him, calling him.
Mark 3:32 και εκαθητο οχλος περι αυτον ειπον δε αυτω ιδου η μητηρ σου και οι αδελφοι σου εξω ζητουσιν σε
Mark 3:32 And the multitude sat about him, and they said unto him, Behold, thy mother and thy brethren without seek for thee.
Mark 3:33 και απεκριθη αυτοις λεγων τις εστιν η μητηρ μου η οι αδελφοι μου
Mark 3:33 And he answered them, saying, Who is my mother, or my brethren?
Mark 3:34 και περιβλεψαμενος κυκλω τους περι αυτον καθημενους λεγει ιδε η μητηρ μου και οι αδελφοι μου
Mark 3:34 And he looked round about on them which sat about him, and said, Behold my mother and my brethren!
Mark 3:35 ος γαρ αν ποιηση το θελημα του θεου ουτος αδελφος μου και αδελφη μου και μητηρ εστιν
Mark 3:35 For whosoever shall do the will of God, the same is my brother, and my sister, and mother.
Mark 4:1 και παλιν ηρξατο διδασκειν παρα την θαλασσαν και συνηχθη προς αυτον οχλος πολυς ωστε αυτον εμβαντα εις το πλοιον καθησθαι εν τη θαλασση και πας ο οχλος προς την θαλασσαν επι της γης ην
Mark 4:1 And he began again to teach by the sea side: and there was gathered unto him a great multitude, so that he entered into a ship, and sat in the sea; and the whole multitude was by the sea on the land.
Mark 4:2 και εδιδασκεν αυτους εν παραβολαις πολλα και ελεγεν αυτοις εν τη διδαχη αυτου
Mark 4:2 And he taught them many things by parables, and said unto them in his doctrine,
Mark 4:3 ακουετε ιδου εξηλθεν ο σπειρων του σπειραι
Mark 4:3 Hearken; Behold, there went out a sower to sow:
Mark 4:4 και εγενετο εν τω σπειρειν ο μεν επεσεν παρα την οδον και ηλθεν τα πετεινα του ουρανου και κατεφαγεν αυτο
Mark 4:4 And it came to pass, as he sowed, some fell by the way side, and the fowls of the air came and devoured it up.
Mark 4:5 αλλο δε επεσεν επι το πετρωδες οπου ουκ ειχεν γην πολλην και ευθεως εξανετειλεν δια το μη εχειν βαθος γης
Mark 4:5 And some fell on stony ground, where it had not much earth; and immediately it sprang up, because it had no depth of earth:
Mark 4:6 ηλιου δε ανατειλαντος εκαυματισθη και δια το μη εχειν ριζαν εξηρανθη
Mark 4:6 But when the sun was up, it was scorched; and because it had no root, it withered away.
Mark 4:7 και αλλο επεσεν εις τας ακανθας και ανεβησαν αι ακανθαι και συνεπνιξαν αυτο και καρπον ουκ εδωκεν
Mark 4:7 And some fell among thorns, and the thorns grew up, and choked it, and it yielded no fruit.
Mark 4:8 και αλλο επεσεν εις την γην την καλην και εδιδου καρπον αναβαινοντα και αυξανοντα και εφερεν εν τριακοντα και εν εξηκοντα και εν εκατον
Mark 4:8 And other fell on good ground, and did yield fruit that sprang up and increased; and brought forth, some thirty, and some sixty, and some an hundred.
Mark 4:9 και ελεγεν αυτοις ο εχων ωτα ακουειν ακουετω
Mark 4:9 And he said unto them, He that hath ears to hear, let him hear.
Mark 4:10 οτε δε εγενετο καταμονας ηρωτησαν αυτον οι περι αυτον συν τοις δωδεκα την παραβολην
Mark 4:10 And when he was alone, they that were about him with the twelve asked of him the parable.
Mark 4:11 και ελεγεν αυτοις υμιν δεδοται γνωναι το μυστηριον της βασιλειας του θεου εκεινοις δε τοις εξω εν παραβολαις τα παντα γινεται
Mark 4:11 And he said unto them, Unto you it is given to know the mystery of the kingdom of God: but unto them that are without, all these things are done in parables:
Mark 4:12 ινα βλεποντες βλεπωσιν και μη ιδωσιν και ακουοντες ακουωσιν και μη συνιωσιν μηποτε επιστρεψωσιν και αφεθη αυτοις τα αμαρτηματα
Mark 4:12 That seeing they may see, and not perceive; and hearing they may hear, and not understand; lest at any time they should be converted, and their sins should be forgiven them.
Mark 4:13 και λεγει αυτοις ουκ οιδατε την παραβολην ταυτην και πως πασας τας παραβολας γνωσεσθε
Mark 4:13 And he said unto them, Know ye not this parable? and how then will ye know all parables?
Mark 4:14 ο σπειρων τον λογον σπειρει
Mark 4:14 The sower soweth the word.
Mark 4:15 ουτοι δε εισιν οι παρα την οδον οπου σπειρεται ο λογος και οταν ακουσωσιν ευθεως ερχεται ο σατανας και αιρει τον λογον τον εσπαρμενον εν ταις καρδιαις αυτων
Mark 4:15 And these are they by the way side, where the word is sown; but when they have heard, Satan cometh immediately, and taketh away the word that was sown in their hearts.
Mark 4:16 και ουτοι εισιν ομοιως οι επι τα πετρωδη σπειρομενοι οι οταν ακουσωσιν τον λογον ευθεως μετα χαρας λαμβανουσιν αυτον
Mark 4:16 And these are they likewise which are sown on stony ground; who, when they have heard the word, immediately receive it with gladness;
Mark 4:17 και ουκ εχουσιν ριζαν εν εαυτοις αλλα προσκαιροι εισιν ειτα γενομενης θλιψεως η διωγμου δια τον λογον ευθεως σκανδαλιζονται
Mark 4:17 And have no root in themselves, and so endure but for a time: afterward, when affliction or persecution ariseth for the word's sake, immediately they are offended.
Mark 4:18 και ουτοι εισιν οι εις τας ακανθας σπειρομενοι ουτοι εισιν οι τον λογον ακουοντες
Mark 4:18 And these are they which are sown among thorns; such as hear the word,
Mark 4:19 και αι μεριμναι του αιωνος τουτου και η απατη του πλουτου και αι περι τα λοιπα επιθυμιαι εισπορευομεναι συμπνιγουσιν τον λογον και ακαρπος γινεται
Mark 4:19 And the cares of this world, and the deceitfulness of riches, and the lusts of other things entering in, choke the word, and it becometh unfruitful.
Mark 4:20 και ουτοι εισιν οι επι την γην την καλην σπαρεντες οιτινες ακουουσιν τον λογον και παραδεχονται και καρποφορουσιν εν τριακοντα και εν εξηκοντα και εν εκατον
Mark 4:20 And these are they which are sown on good ground; such as hear the word, and receive it, and bring forth fruit, some thirtyfold, some sixty, and some an hundred.
Mark 4:21 και ελεγεν αυτοις μητι ο λυχνος ερχεται ινα υπο τον μοδιον τεθη η υπο την κλινην ουχ ινα επι την λυχνιαν επιτεθη
Mark 4:21 And he said unto them, Is a candle brought to be put under a bushel, or under a bed? and not to be set on a candlestick?
Mark 4:22 ου γαρ εστιν τι κρυπτον ο εαν μη φανερωθη ουδε εγενετο αποκρυφον αλλ ινα εις φανερον ελθη
Mark 4:22 For there is nothing hid, which shall not be manifested; neither was any thing kept secret, but that it should come abroad.
Mark 4:23 ει τις εχει ωτα ακουειν ακουετω
Mark 4:23 If any man have ears to hear, let him hear.
Mark 4:24 και ελεγεν αυτοις βλεπετε τι ακουετε εν ω μετρω μετρειτε μετρηθησεται υμιν και προστεθησεται υμιν τοις ακουουσιν
Mark 4:24 And he said unto them, Take heed what ye hear: with what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you: and unto you that hear shall more be given.
Mark 4:25 ος γαρ αν εχη δοθησεται αυτω και ος ουκ εχει και ο εχει αρθησεται απ αυτου
Mark 4:25 For he that hath, to him shall be given: and he that hath not, from him shall be taken even that which he hath.
Mark 4:26 και ελεγεν ουτως εστιν η βασιλεια του θεου ως εαν ανθρωπος βαλη τον σπορον επι της γης
Mark 4:26 And he said, So is the kingdom of God, as if a man should cast seed into the ground;
Mark 4:27 και καθευδη και εγειρηται νυκτα και ημεραν και ο σπορος βλαστανη και μηκυνηται ως ουκ οιδεν αυτος
Mark 4:27 And should sleep, and rise night and day, and the seed should spring and grow up, he knoweth not how.
Mark 4:28 αυτοματη γαρ η γη καρποφορει πρωτον χορτον ειτα σταχυν ειτα πληρη σιτον εν τω σταχυι
Mark 4:28 For the earth bringeth forth fruit of herself; first the blade, then the ear, after that the full corn in the ear.
Mark 4:29 οταν δε παραδω ο καρπος ευθεως αποστελλει το δρεπανον οτι παρεστηκεν ο θερισμος
Mark 4:29 But when the fruit is brought forth, immediately he putteth in the sickle, because the harvest is come.
Mark 4:30 και ελεγεν τινι ομοιωσωμεν την βασιλειαν του θεου η εν ποια παραβολη παραβαλωμεν αυτην
Mark 4:30 And he said, Whereunto shall we liken the kingdom of God? or with what comparison shall we compare it?
Mark 4:31 ως κοκκω σιναπεως ος οταν σπαρη επι της γης μικροτερος παντων των σπερματων εστιν των επι της γης
Mark 4:31 It is like a grain of mustard seed, which, when it is sown in the earth, is less than all the seeds that be in the earth:
Mark 4:32 και οταν σπαρη αναβαινει και γινεται παντων των λαχανων μειζων και ποιει κλαδους μεγαλους ωστε δυνασθαι υπο την σκιαν αυτου τα πετεινα του ουρανου κατασκηνουν
Mark 4:32 But when it is sown, it groweth up, and becometh greater than all herbs, and shooteth out great branches; so that the fowls of the air may lodge under the shadow of it.
Mark 4:33 και τοιαυταις παραβολαις πολλαις ελαλει αυτοις τον λογον καθως ηδυναντο ακουειν
Mark 4:33 And with many such parables spake he the word unto them, as they were able to hear it.
Mark 4:34 χωρις δε παραβολης ουκ ελαλει αυτοις κατ ιδιαν δε τοις μαθηταις αυτου επελυεν παντα
Mark 4:34 But without a parable spake he not unto them: and when they were alone, he expounded all things to his disciples.
Mark 4:35 και λεγει αυτοις εν εκεινη τη ημερα οψιας γενομενης διελθωμεν εις το περαν
Mark 4:35 And the same day, when the even was come, he saith unto them, Let us pass over unto the other side.
Mark 4:36 και αφεντες τον οχλον παραλαμβανουσιν αυτον ως ην εν τω πλοιω και αλλα δε πλοιαρια ην μετ αυτου
Mark 4:36 And when they had sent away the multitude, they took him even as he was in the ship. And there were also with him other little ships.
Mark 4:37 και γινεται λαιλαψ ανεμου μεγαλη τα δε κυματα επεβαλλεν εις το πλοιον ωστε αυτο ηδη γεμιζεσθαι
Mark 4:37 And there arose a great storm of wind, and the waves beat into the ship, so that it was now full.
Mark 4:38 και ην αυτος επι τη πρυμνη επι το προσκεφαλαιον καθευδων και διεγειρουσιν αυτον και λεγουσιν αυτω διδασκαλε ου μελει σοι οτι απολλυμεθα
Mark 4:38 And he was in the hinder part of the ship, asleep on a pillow: and they awake him, and say unto him, Master, carest thou not that we perish?
Mark 4:39 και διεγερθεις επετιμησεν τω ανεμω και ειπεν τη θαλασση σιωπα πεφιμωσο και εκοπασεν ο ανεμος και εγενετο γαληνη μεγαλη
Mark 4:39 And he arose, and rebuked the wind, and said unto the sea, Peace, be still. And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm.
Mark 4:40 και ειπεν αυτοις τι δειλοι εστε ουτως πως ουκ εχετε πιστιν
Mark 4:40 And he said unto them, Why are ye so fearful? how is it that ye have no faith?
Mark 4:41 και εφοβηθησαν φοβον μεγαν και ελεγον προς αλληλους τις αρα ουτος εστιν οτι και ο ανεμος και η θαλασσα υπακουουσιν αυτω
Mark 4:41 And they feared exceedingly, and said one to another, What manner of man is this, that even the wind and the sea obey him?
Mark 5:1 και ηλθον εις το περαν της θαλασσης εις την χωραν των γαδαρηνων
Mark 5:1 And they came over unto the other side of the sea, into the country of the Gadarenes.
Mark 5:2 και εξελθοντι αυτω εκ του πλοιου ευθεως απηντησεν αυτω εκ των μνημειων ανθρωπος εν πνευματι ακαθαρτω
Mark 5:2 And when he was come out of the ship, immediately there met him out of the tombs a man with an unclean spirit,
Mark 5:3 ος την κατοικησιν ειχεν εν τοις μνημειοις και ουτε αλυσεσιν ουδεις ηδυνατο αυτον δησαι
Mark 5:3 Who had his dwelling among the tombs; and no man could bind him, no, not with chains:
Mark 5:4 δια το αυτον πολλακις πεδαις και αλυσεσιν δεδεσθαι και διεσπασθαι υπ αυτου τας αλυσεις και τας πεδας συντετριφθαι και ουδεις αυτον ισχυεν δαμασαι
Mark 5:4 Because that he had been often bound with fetters and chains, and the chains had been plucked asunder by him, and the fetters broken in pieces: neither could any man tame him.
Mark 5:5 και διαπαντος νυκτος και ημερας εν τοις ορεσιν και εν τοις μνημασιν ην κραζων και κατακοπτων εαυτον λιθοις
Mark 5:5 And always, night and day, he was in the mountains, and in the tombs, crying, and cutting himself with stones.
Mark 5:6 ιδων δε τον ιησουν απο μακροθεν εδραμεν και προσεκυνησεν αυτω
Mark 5:6 But when he saw Jesus afar off, he ran and worshipped him,
Mark 5:7 και κραξας φωνη μεγαλη ειπεν τι εμοι και σοι ιησου υιε του θεου του υψιστου ορκιζω σε τον θεον μη με βασανισης
Mark 5:7 And cried with a loud voice, and said, What have I to do with thee, Jesus, thou Son of the most high God? I adjure thee by God, that thou torment me not.
Mark 5:8 ελεγεν γαρ αυτω εξελθε το πνευμα το ακαθαρτον εκ του ανθρωπου
Mark 5:8 For he said unto him, Come out of the man, thou unclean spirit.
Mark 5:9 και επηρωτα αυτον τι σοι ονομα και απεκριθη λεγων λεγεων ονομα μοι οτι πολλοι εσμεν
Mark 5:9 And he asked him, What is thy name? And he answered, saying, My name is Legion: for we are many.
Mark 5:10 και παρεκαλει αυτον πολλα ινα μη αυτους αποστειλη εξω της χωρας
Mark 5:10 And he besought him much that he would not send them away out of the country.
Mark 5:11 ην δε εκει προς τα ορη αγελη χοιρων μεγαλη βοσκομενη
Mark 5:11 Now there was there nigh unto the mountains a great herd of swine feeding.
Mark 5:12 και παρεκαλεσαν αυτον παντες οι δαιμονες λεγοντες πεμψον ημας εις τους χοιρους ινα εις αυτους εισελθωμεν
Mark 5:12 And all the devils besought him, saying, Send us into the swine, that we may enter into them.
Mark 5:13 και επετρεψεν αυτοις ευθεως ο ιησους και εξελθοντα τα πνευματα τα ακαθαρτα εισηλθον εις τους χοιρους και ωρμησεν η αγελη κατα του κρημνου εις την θαλασσαν ησαν δε ως δισχιλιοι και επνιγοντο εν τη θαλασση
Mark 5:13 And forthwith Jesus gave them leave. And the unclean spirits went out, and entered into the swine: and the herd ran violently down a steep place into the sea, (they were about two thousand;) and were choked in the sea.
Mark 5:14 οι δε βοσκοντες τους χοιρους εφυγον και ανηγγειλαν εις την πολιν και εις τους αγρους και εξηλθον ιδειν τι εστιν το γεγονος
Mark 5:14 And they that fed the swine fled, and told it in the city, and in the country. And they went out to see what it was that was done.
Mark 5:15 και ερχονται προς τον ιησουν και θεωρουσιν τον δαιμονιζομενον καθημενον και ιματισμενον και σωφρονουντα τον εσχηκοτα τον λεγεωνα και εφοβηθησαν
Mark 5:15 And they come to Jesus, and see him that was possessed with the devil, and had the legion, sitting, and clothed, and in his right mind: and they were afraid.
Mark 5:16 και διηγησαντο αυτοις οι ιδοντες πως εγενετο τω δαιμονιζομενω και περι των χοιρων
Mark 5:16 And they that saw it told them how it befell to him that was possessed with the devil, and also concerning the swine.
Mark 5:17 και ηρξαντο παρακαλειν αυτον απελθειν απο των οριων αυτων
Mark 5:17 And they began to pray him to depart out of their coasts.
Mark 5:18 και εμβαντος αυτου εις το πλοιον παρεκαλει αυτον ο δαιμονισθεις ινα η μετ αυτου
Mark 5:18 And when he was come into the ship, he that had been possessed with the devil prayed him that he might be with him.
Mark 5:19 ο δε ιησους ουκ αφηκεν αυτον αλλα λεγει αυτω υπαγε εις τον οικον σου προς τους σους και αναγγειλον αυτοις οσα σοι ο κυριος εποιησεν και ηλεησεν σε
Mark 5:19 Howbeit Jesus suffered him not, but saith unto him, Go home to thy friends, and tell them how great things the Lord hath done for thee, and hath had compassion on thee.
Mark 5:20 και απηλθεν και ηρξατο κηρυσσειν εν τη δεκαπολει οσα εποιησεν αυτω ο ιησους και παντες εθαυμαζον
Mark 5:20 And he departed, and began to publish in Decapolis how great things Jesus had done for him: and all men did marvel.
Mark 5:21 και διαπερασαντος του ιησου εν τω πλοιω παλιν εις το περαν συνηχθη οχλος πολυς επ αυτον και ην παρα την θαλασσαν
Mark 5:21 And when Jesus was passed over again by ship unto the other side, much people gathered unto him: and he was nigh unto the sea.
Mark 5:22 και ιδου ερχεται εις των αρχισυναγωγων ονοματι ιαειρος και ιδων αυτον πιπτει προς τους ποδας αυτου
Mark 5:22 And, behold, there cometh one of the rulers of the synagogue, Jairus by name; and when he saw him, he fell at his feet,
Mark 5:23 και παρεκαλει αυτον πολλα λεγων οτι το θυγατριον μου εσχατως εχει ινα ελθων επιθης αυτη τας χειρας οπως σωθη και ζησεται
Mark 5:23 And besought him greatly, saying, My little daughter lieth at the point of death: I pray thee, come and lay thy hands on her, that she may be healed; and she shall live.
Mark 5:24 και απηλθεν μετ αυτου και ηκολουθει αυτω οχλος πολυς και συνεθλιβον αυτον
Mark 5:24 And Jesus went with him; and much people followed him, and thronged him.
Mark 5:25 και γυνη τις ουσα εν ρυσει αιματος ετη δωδεκα
Mark 5:25 And a certain woman, which had an issue of blood twelve years,
Mark 5:26 και πολλα παθουσα υπο πολλων ιατρων και δαπανησασα τα παρ εαυτης παντα και μηδεν ωφεληθεισα αλλα μαλλον εις το χειρον ελθουσα
Mark 5:26 And had suffered many things of many physicians, and had spent all that she had, and was nothing bettered, but rather grew worse,
Mark 5:27 ακουσασα περι του ιησου ελθουσα εν τω οχλω οπισθεν ηψατο του ιματιου αυτου
Mark 5:27 When she had heard of Jesus, came in the press behind, and touched his garment.
Mark 5:28 ελεγεν γαρ οτι καν των ιματιων αυτου αψωμαι σωθησομαι
Mark 5:28 For she said, If I may touch but his clothes, I shall be whole.
Mark 5:29 και ευθεως εξηρανθη η πηγη του αιματος αυτης και εγνω τω σωματι οτι ιαται απο της μαστιγος
Mark 5:29 And straightway the fountain of her blood was dried up; and she felt in her body that she was healed of that plague.
Mark 5:30 και ευθεως ο ιησους επιγνους εν εαυτω την εξ αυτου δυναμιν εξελθουσαν επιστραφεις εν τω οχλω ελεγεν τις μου ηψατο των ιματιων
Mark 5:30 And Jesus, immediately knowing in himself that virtue had gone out of him, turned him about in the press, and said, Who touched my clothes?
Mark 5:31 και ελεγον αυτω οι μαθηται αυτου βλεπεις τον οχλον συνθλιβοντα σε και λεγεις τις μου ηψατο
Mark 5:31 And his disciples said unto him, Thou seest the multitude thronging thee, and sayest thou, Who touched me?
Mark 5:32 και περιεβλεπετο ιδειν την τουτο ποιησασαν
Mark 5:32 And he looked round about to see her that had done this thing.
Mark 5:33 η δε γυνη φοβηθεισα και τρεμουσα ειδυια ο γεγονεν επ αυτη ηλθεν και προσεπεσεν αυτω και ειπεν αυτω πασαν την αληθειαν
Mark 5:33 But the woman fearing and trembling, knowing what was done in her, came and fell down before him, and told him all the truth.
Mark 5:34 ο δε ειπεν αυτη θυγατερ η πιστις σου σεσωκεν σε υπαγε εις ειρηνην και ισθι υγιης απο της μαστιγος σου
Mark 5:34 And he said unto her, Daughter, thy faith hath made thee whole; go in peace, and be whole of thy plague.
Mark 5:35 ετι αυτου λαλουντος ερχονται απο του αρχισυναγωγου λεγοντες οτι η θυγατηρ σου απεθανεν τι ετι σκυλλεις τον διδασκαλον
Mark 5:35 While he yet spake, there came from the ruler of the synagogue's house certain which said, Thy daughter is dead: why troublest thou the Master any further?
Mark 5:36 ο δε ιησους ευθεως ακουσας τον λογον λαλουμενον λεγει τω αρχισυναγωγω μη φοβου μονον πιστευε
Mark 5:36 As soon as Jesus heard the word that was spoken, he saith unto the ruler of the synagogue, Be not afraid, only believe.
Mark 5:37 και ουκ αφηκεν ουδενα αυτω συνακολουθησαι ει μη πετρον και ιακωβον και ιωαννην τον αδελφον ιακωβου
Mark 5:37 And he suffered no man to follow him, save Peter, and James, and John the brother of James.
Mark 5:38 και ερχεται εις τον οικον του αρχισυναγωγου και θεωρει θορυβον κλαιοντας και αλαλαζοντας πολλα
Mark 5:38 And he cometh to the house of the ruler of the synagogue, and seeth the tumult, and them that wept and wailed greatly.
Mark 5:39 και εισελθων λεγει αυτοις τι θορυβεισθε και κλαιετε το παιδιον ουκ απεθανεν αλλα καθευδει
Mark 5:39 And when he was come in, he saith unto them, Why make ye this ado, and weep? the damsel is not dead, but sleepeth.
Mark 5:40 και κατεγελων αυτου ο δε εκβαλων απαντας παραλαμβανει τον πατερα του παιδιου και την μητερα και τους μετ αυτου και εισπορευεται οπου ην το παιδιον ανακειμενον
Mark 5:40 And they laughed him to scorn. But when he had put them all out, he taketh the father and the mother of the damsel, and them that were with him, and entereth in where the damsel was lying.
Mark 5:41 και κρατησας της χειρος του παιδιου λεγει αυτη ταλιθα κουμι ο εστιν μεθερμηνευομενον το κορασιον σοι λεγω εγειραι
Mark 5:41 And he took the damsel by the hand, and said unto her, Talitha cumi; which is, being interpreted, Damsel, I say unto thee, arise.
Mark 5:42 και ευθεως ανεστη το κορασιον και περιεπατει ην γαρ ετων δωδεκα και εξεστησαν εκστασει μεγαλη
Mark 5:42 And straightway the damsel arose, and walked; for she was of the age of twelve years. And they were astonished with a great astonishment.
Mark 5:43 και διεστειλατο αυτοις πολλα ινα μηδεις γνω τουτο και ειπεν δοθηναι αυτη φαγειν
Mark 5:43 And he charged them straitly that no man should know it; and commanded that something should be given her to eat.
Mark 6:1 και εξηλθεν εκειθεν και ηλθεν εις την πατριδα αυτου και ακολουθουσιν αυτω οι μαθηται αυτου
Mark 6:1 And he went out from thence, and came into his own country; and his disciples follow him.
Mark 6:2 και γενομενου σαββατου ηρξατο εν τη συναγωγη διδασκειν και πολλοι ακουοντες εξεπλησσοντο λεγοντες ποθεν τουτω ταυτα και τις η σοφια η δοθεισα αυτω οτι και δυναμεις τοιαυται δια των χειρων αυτου γινονται
Mark 6:2 And when the sabbath day was come, he began to teach in the synagogue: and many hearing him were astonished, saying, From whence hath this man these things? and what wisdom is this which is given unto him, that even such mighty works are wrought by his hands?
Mark 6:3 ουκ ουτος εστιν ο τεκτων ο υιος μαριας αδελφος δε ιακωβου και ιωση και ιουδα και σιμωνος και ουκ εισιν αι αδελφαι αυτου ωδε προς ημας και εσκανδαλιζοντο εν αυτω
Mark 6:3 Is not this the carpenter, the son of Mary, the brother of James, and Joses, and of Juda, and Simon? and are not his sisters here with us? And they were offended at him.
Mark 6:4 ελεγεν δε αυτοις ο ιησους οτι ουκ εστιν προφητης ατιμος ει μη εν τη πατριδι αυτου και εν τοις συγγενεσιν και εν τη οικια αυτου
Mark 6:4 But Jesus, said unto them, A prophet is not without honour, but in his own country, and among his own kin, and in his own house.
Mark 6:5 και ουκ ηδυνατο εκει ουδεμιαν δυναμιν ποιησαι ει μη ολιγοις αρρωστοις επιθεις τας χειρας εθεραπευσεν
Mark 6:5 And he could there do no mighty work, save that he laid his hands upon a few sick folk, and healed them.
Mark 6:6 και εθαυμαζεν δια την απιστιαν αυτων και περιηγεν τας κωμας κυκλω διδασκων
Mark 6:6 And he marvelled because of their unbelief. And he went round about the villages, teaching.
Mark 6:7 και προσκαλειται τους δωδεκα και ηρξατο αυτους αποστελλειν δυο δυο και εδιδου αυτοις εξουσιαν των πνευματων των ακαθαρτων
Mark 6:7 And he called unto him the twelve, and began to send them forth by two and two; and gave them power over unclean spirits;
Mark 6:8 και παρηγγειλεν αυτοις ινα μηδεν αιρωσιν εις οδον ει μη ραβδον μονον μη πηραν μη αρτον μη εις την ζωνην χαλκον
Mark 6:8 And commanded them that they should take nothing for their journey, save a staff only; no scrip, no bread, no money in their purse:
Mark 6:9 αλλ υποδεδεμενους σανδαλια και μη ενδυσησθε δυο χιτωνας
Mark 6:9 But be shod with sandals; and not put on two coats.
Mark 6:10 και ελεγεν αυτοις οπου εαν εισελθητε εις οικιαν εκει μενετε εως αν εξελθητε εκειθεν
Mark 6:10 And he said unto them, In what place soever ye enter into an house, there abide till ye depart from that place.
Mark 6:11 και οσοι αν μη δεξωνται υμας μηδε ακουσωσιν υμων εκπορευομενοι εκειθεν εκτιναξατε τον χουν τον υποκατω των ποδων υμων εις μαρτυριον αυτοις αμην λεγω υμιν ανεκτοτερον εσται σοδομοις η γομορροις εν ημερα κρισεως η τη πολει εκεινη
Mark 6:11 And whosoever shall not receive you, nor hear you, when ye depart thence, shake off the dust under your feet for a testimony against them. Verily I say unto you, It shall be more tolerable for Sodom and Gomorrha in the day of judgment, than for that city.
Mark 6:12 και εξελθοντες εκηρυσσον ινα μετανοησωσιν
Mark 6:12 And they went out, and preached that men should repent.
Mark 6:13 και δαιμονια πολλα εξεβαλλον και ηλειφον ελαιω πολλους αρρωστους και εθεραπευον
Mark 6:13 And they cast out many devils, and anointed with oil many that were sick, and healed them.
Mark 6:14 και ηκουσεν ο βασιλευς ηρωδης φανερον γαρ εγενετο το ονομα αυτου και ελεγεν οτι ιωαννης ο βαπτιζων εκ νεκρων ηγερθη και δια τουτο ενεργουσιν αι δυναμεις εν αυτω
Mark 6:14 And king Herod heard of him; (for his name was spread abroad:) and he said, That John the Baptist was risen from the dead, and therefore mighty works do shew forth themselves in him.
Mark 6:15 αλλοι ελεγον οτι ηλιας εστιν αλλοι δε ελεγον οτι προφητης εστιν η ως εις των προφητων
Mark 6:15 Others said, That it is Elias. And others said, That it is a prophet, or as one of the prophets.
Mark 6:16 ακουσας δε ο ηρωδης ειπεν οτι ον εγω απεκεφαλισα ιωαννην ουτος εστιν αυτος ηγερθη εκ νεκρων
Mark 6:16 But when Herod heard thereof, he said, It is John, whom I beheaded: he is risen from the dead.
Mark 6:17 αυτος γαρ ο ηρωδης αποστειλας εκρατησεν τον ιωαννην και εδησεν αυτον εν τη φυλακη δια ηρωδιαδα την γυναικα φιλιππου του αδελφου αυτου οτι αυτην εγαμησεν
Mark 6:17 For Herod himself had sent forth and laid hold upon John, and bound him in prison for Herodias' sake, his brother Philip's wife: for he had married her.
Mark 6:18 ελεγεν γαρ ο ιωαννης τω ηρωδη οτι ουκ εξεστιν σοι εχειν την γυναικα του αδελφου σου
Mark 6:18 For John had said unto Herod, It is not lawful for thee to have thy brother's wife.
Mark 6:19 η δε ηρωδιας ενειχεν αυτω και ηθελεν αυτον αποκτειναι και ουκ ηδυνατο
Mark 6:19 Therefore Herodias had a quarrel against him, and would have killed him; but she could not:
Mark 6:20 ο γαρ ηρωδης εφοβειτο τον ιωαννην ειδως αυτον ανδρα δικαιον και αγιον και συνετηρει αυτον και ακουσας αυτου πολλα εποιει και ηδεως αυτου ηκουεν
Mark 6:20 For Herod feared John, knowing that he was a just man and an holy, and observed him; and when he heard him, he did many things, and heard him gladly.
Mark 6:21 και γενομενης ημερας ευκαιρου οτε ηρωδης τοις γενεσιοις αυτου δειπνον εποιει τοις μεγιστασιν αυτου και τοις χιλιαρχοις και τοις πρωτοις της γαλιλαιας
Mark 6:21 And when a convenient day was come, that Herod on his birthday made a supper to his lords, high captains, and chief estates of Galilee;
Mark 6:22 και εισελθουσης της θυγατρος αυτης της ηρωδιαδος και ορχησαμενης και αρεσασης τω ηρωδη και τοις συνανακειμενοις ειπεν ο βασιλευς τω κορασιω αιτησον με ο εαν θελης και δωσω σοι
Mark 6:22 And when the daughter of the said Herodias came in, and danced, and pleased Herod and them that sat with him, the king said unto the damsel, Ask of me whatsoever thou wilt, and I will give it thee.
Mark 6:23 και ωμοσεν αυτη οτι ο εαν με αιτησης δωσω σοι εως ημισους της βασιλειας μου
Mark 6:23 And he sware unto her, Whatsoever thou shalt ask of me, I will give it thee, unto the half of my kingdom.
Mark 6:24 η δε εξελθουσα ειπεν τη μητρι αυτης τι αιτησομαι η δε ειπεν την κεφαλην ιωαννου του βαπτιστου
Mark 6:24 And she went forth, and said unto her mother, What shall I ask? And she said, The head of John the Baptist.
Mark 6:25 και εισελθουσα ευθεως μετα σπουδης προς τον βασιλεα ητησατο λεγουσα θελω ινα μοι δως εξ αυτης επι πινακι την κεφαλην ιωαννου του βαπτιστου
Mark 6:25 And she came in straightway with haste unto the king, and asked, saying, I will that thou give me by and by in a charger the head of John the Baptist.
Mark 6:26 και περιλυπος γενομενος ο βασιλευς δια τους ορκους και τους συνανακειμενους ουκ ηθελησεν αυτην αθετησαι
Mark 6:26 And the king was exceeding sorry; yet for his oath's sake, and for their sakes which sat with him, he would not reject her.
Mark 6:27 και ευθεως αποστειλας ο βασιλευς σπεκουλατωρα επεταξεν ενεχθηναι την κεφαλην αυτου
Mark 6:27 And immediately the king sent an executioner, and commanded his head to be brought: and he went and beheaded him in the prison,
Mark 6:28 ο δε απελθων απεκεφαλισεν αυτον εν τη φυλακη και ηνεγκεν την κεφαλην αυτου επι πινακι και εδωκεν αυτην τω κορασιω και το κορασιον εδωκεν αυτην τη μητρι αυτης
Mark 6:28 And brought his head in a charger, and gave it to the damsel: and the damsel gave it to her mother.
Mark 6:29 και ακουσαντες οι μαθηται αυτου ηλθον και ηραν το πτωμα αυτου και εθηκαν αυτο εν τω μνημειω
Mark 6:29 And when his disciples heard of it, they came and took up his corpse, and laid it in a tomb.
Mark 6:30 και συναγονται οι αποστολοι προς τον ιησουν και απηγγειλαν αυτω παντα και οσα εποιησαν και οσα εδιδαξαν
Mark 6:30 And the apostles gathered themselves together unto Jesus, and told him all things, both what they had done, and what they had taught.
Mark 6:31 και ειπεν αυτοις δευτε υμεις αυτοι κατ ιδιαν εις ερημον τοπον και αναπαυεσθε ολιγον ησαν γαρ οι ερχομενοι και οι υπαγοντες πολλοι και ουδε φαγειν ηυκαιρουν
Mark 6:31 And he said unto them, Come ye yourselves apart into a desert place, and rest a while: for there were many coming and going, and they had no leisure so much as to eat.
Mark 6:32 και απηλθον εις ερημον τοπον τω πλοιω κατ ιδιαν
Mark 6:32 And they departed into a desert place by ship privately.
Mark 6:33 και ειδον αυτους υπαγοντας οι οχλοι και επεγνωσαν αυτον πολλοι και πεζη απο πασων των πολεων συνεδραμον εκει και προηλθον αυτους και συνηλθον προς αυτον
Mark 6:33 And the people saw them departing, and many knew him, and ran afoot thither out of all cities, and outwent them, and came together unto him.
Mark 6:34 και εξελθων ειδεν ο ιησους πολυν οχλον και εσπλαγχνισθη επ αυτοις οτι ησαν ως προβατα μη εχοντα ποιμενα και ηρξατο διδασκειν αυτους πολλα
Mark 6:34 And Jesus, when he came out, saw much people, and was moved with compassion toward them, because they were as sheep not having a shepherd: and he began to teach them many things.
Mark 6:35 και ηδη ωρας πολλης γενομενης προσελθοντες αυτω οι μαθηται αυτου λεγουσιν οτι ερημος εστιν ο τοπος και ηδη ωρα πολλη
Mark 6:35 And when the day was now far spent, his disciples came unto him, and said, This is a desert place, and now the time is far passed:
Mark 6:36 απολυσον αυτους ινα απελθοντες εις τους κυκλω αγρους και κωμας αγορασωσιν εαυτοις αρτους τι γαρ φαγωσιν ουκ εχουσιν
Mark 6:36 Send them away, that they may go into the country round about, and into the villages, and buy themselves bread: for they have nothing to eat.
Mark 6:37 ο δε αποκριθεις ειπεν αυτοις δοτε αυτοις υμεις φαγειν και λεγουσιν αυτω απελθοντες αγορασωμεν διακοσιων δηναριων αρτους και δωμεν αυτοις φαγειν
Mark 6:37 He answered and said unto them, Give ye them to eat. And they say unto him, Shall we go and buy two hundred pennyworth of bread, and give them to eat?
Mark 6:38 ο δε λεγει αυτοις ποσους αρτους εχετε υπαγετε και ιδετε και γνοντες λεγουσιν πεντε και δυο ιχθυας
Mark 6:38 He saith unto them, How many loaves have ye? go and see. And when they knew, they say, Five, and two fishes.
Mark 6:39 και επεταξεν αυτοις ανακλιναι παντας συμποσια συμποσια επι τω χλωρω χορτω
Mark 6:39 And he commanded them to make all sit down by companies upon the green grass.
Mark 6:40 και ανεπεσον πρασιαι πρασιαι ανα εκατον και ανα πεντηκοντα
Mark 6:40 And they sat down in ranks, by hundreds, and by fifties.
Mark 6:41 και λαβων τους πεντε αρτους και τους δυο ιχθυας αναβλεψας εις τον ουρανον ευλογησεν και κατεκλασεν τους αρτους και εδιδου τοις μαθηταις αυτου ινα παραθωσιν αυτοις και τους δυο ιχθυας εμερισεν πασιν
Mark 6:41 And when he had taken the five loaves and the two fishes, he looked up to heaven, and blessed, and brake the loaves, and gave them to his disciples to set before them; and the two fishes divided he among them all.
Mark 6:42 και εφαγον παντες και εχορτασθησαν
Mark 6:42 And they did all eat, and were filled.
Mark 6:43 και ηραν κλασματων δωδεκα κοφινους πληρεις και απο των ιχθυων
Mark 6:43 And they took up twelve baskets full of the fragments, and of the fishes.
Mark 6:44 και ησαν οι φαγοντες τους αρτους ωσει πεντακισχιλιοι ανδρες
Mark 6:44 And they that did eat of the loaves were about five thousand men.
Mark 6:45 και ευθεως ηναγκασεν τους μαθητας αυτου εμβηναι εις το πλοιον και προαγειν εις το περαν προς βηθσαιδαν εως αυτος απολυση τον οχλον
Mark 6:45 And straightway he constrained his disciples to get into the ship, and to go to the other side before unto Bethsaida, while he sent away the people.
Mark 6:46 και αποταξαμενος αυτοις απηλθεν εις το ορος προσευξασθαι
Mark 6:46 And when he had sent them away, he departed into a mountain to pray.
Mark 6:47 και οψιας γενομενης ην το πλοιον εν μεσω της θαλασσης και αυτος μονος επι της γης
Mark 6:47 And when even was come, the ship was in the midst of the sea, and he alone on the land.
Mark 6:48 και ειδεν αυτους βασανιζομενους εν τω ελαυνειν ην γαρ ο ανεμος εναντιος αυτοις και περι τεταρτην φυλακην της νυκτος ερχεται προς αυτους περιπατων επι της θαλασσης και ηθελεν παρελθειν αυτους
Mark 6:48 And he saw them toiling in rowing; for the wind was contrary unto them: and about the fourth watch of the night he cometh unto them, walking upon the sea, and would have passed by them.
Mark 6:49 οι δε ιδοντες αυτον περιπατουντα επι της θαλασσης εδοξαν φαντασμα ειναι και ανεκραξαν
Mark 6:49 But when they saw him walking upon the sea, they supposed it had been a spirit, and cried out:
Mark 6:50 παντες γαρ αυτον ειδον και εταραχθησαν και ευθεως ελαλησεν μετ αυτων και λεγει αυτοις θαρσειτε εγω ειμι μη φοβεισθε
Mark 6:50 For they all saw him, and were troubled. And immediately he talked with them, and saith unto them, Be of good cheer: it is I; be not afraid.
Mark 6:51 και ανεβη προς αυτους εις το πλοιον και εκοπασεν ο ανεμος και λιαν εκ περισσου εν εαυτοις εξισταντο και εθαυμαζον
Mark 6:51 And he went up unto them into the ship; and the wind ceased: and they were sore amazed in themselves beyond measure, and wondered.
Mark 6:52 ου γαρ συνηκαν επι τοις αρτοις ην γαρ η καρδια αυτων πεπωρωμενη
Mark 6:52 For they considered not the miracle of the loaves: for their heart was hardened.
Mark 6:53 και διαπερασαντες ηλθον επι την γην γενησαρετ και προσωρμισθησαν
Mark 6:53 And when they had passed over, they came into the land of Gennesaret, and drew to the shore.
Mark 6:54 και εξελθοντων αυτων εκ του πλοιου ευθεως επιγνοντες αυτον
Mark 6:54 And when they were come out of the ship, straightway they knew him,
Mark 6:55 περιδραμοντες ολην την περιχωρον εκεινην ηρξαντο επι τοις κραββατοις τους κακως εχοντας περιφερειν οπου ηκουον οτι εκει εστιν
Mark 6:55 And ran through that whole region round about, and began to carry about in beds those that were sick, where they heard he was.
Mark 6:56 και οπου αν εισεπορευετο εις κωμας η πολεις η αγρους εν ταις αγοραις ετιθουν τους ασθενουντας και παρεκαλουν αυτον ινα καν του κρασπεδου του ιματιου αυτου αψωνται και οσοι αν ηπτοντο αυτου εσωζοντο
Mark 6:56 And whithersoever he entered, into villages, or cities, or country, they laid the sick in the streets, and besought him that they might touch if it were but the border of his garment: and as many as touched him were made whole.
Mark 7:1 και συναγονται προς αυτον οι φαρισαιοι και τινες των γραμματεων ελθοντες απο ιεροσολυμων
Mark 7:1 Then came together unto him the Pharisees, and certain of the scribes, which came from Jerusalem.
Mark 7:2 και ιδοντες τινας των μαθητων αυτου κοιναις χερσιν τουτ εστιν ανιπτοις εσθιοντας αρτους εμεμψαντο
Mark 7:2 And when they saw some of his disciples eat bread with defiled, that is to say, with unwashen, hands, they found fault.
Mark 7:3 οι γαρ φαρισαιοι και παντες οι ιουδαιοι εαν μη πυγμη νιψωνται τας χειρας ουκ εσθιουσιν κρατουντες την παραδοσιν των πρεσβυτερων
Mark 7:3 For the Pharisees, and all the Jews, except they wash their hands oft, eat not, holding the tradition of the elders.
Mark 7:4 και απο αγορας εαν μη βαπτισωνται ουκ εσθιουσιν και αλλα πολλα εστιν α παρελαβον κρατειν βαπτισμους ποτηριων και ξεστων και χαλκιων και κλινων
Mark 7:4 And when they come from the market, except they wash, they eat not. And many other things there be, which they have received to hold, as the washing of cups, and pots, brasen vessels, and of tables.
Mark 7:5 επειτα επερωτωσιν αυτον οι φαρισαιοι και οι γραμματεις διατι οι μαθηται σου ου περιπατουσιν κατα την παραδοσιν των πρεσβυτερων αλλα ανιπτοις χερσιν εσθιουσιν τον αρτον
Mark 7:5 Then the Pharisees and scribes asked him, Why walk not thy disciples according to the tradition of the elders, but eat bread with unwashen hands?
Mark 7:6 ο δε αποκριθεις ειπεν αυτοις οτι καλως προεφητευσεν ησαιας περι υμων των υποκριτων ως γεγραπται ουτος ο λαος τοις χειλεσιν με τιμα η δε καρδια αυτων πορρω απεχει απ εμου
Mark 7:6 He answered and said unto them, Well hath Esaias prophesied of you hypocrites, as it is written, This people honoureth me with their lips, but their heart is far from me.
Mark 7:7 ματην δε σεβονται με διδασκοντες διδασκαλιας ενταλματα ανθρωπων
Mark 7:7 Howbeit in vain do they worship me, teaching for doctrines the commandments of men.
Mark 7:8 αφεντες γαρ την εντολην του θεου κρατειτε την παραδοσιν των ανθρωπων βαπτισμους ξεστων και ποτηριων και αλλα παρομοια τοιαυτα πολλα ποιειτε
Mark 7:8 For laying aside the commandment of God, ye hold the tradition of men, as the washing of pots and cups: and many other such like things ye do.
Mark 7:9 και ελεγεν αυτοις καλως αθετειτε την εντολην του θεου ινα την παραδοσιν υμων τηρησητε
Mark 7:9 And he said unto them, Full well ye reject the commandment of God, that ye may keep your own tradition.
Mark 7:10 μωσης γαρ ειπεν τιμα τον πατερα σου και την μητερα σου και ο κακολογων πατερα η μητερα θανατω τελευτατω
Mark 7:10 For Moses said, Honour thy father and thy mother; and, Whoso curseth father or mother, let him die the death:
Mark 7:11 υμεις δε λεγετε εαν ειπη ανθρωπος τω πατρι η τη μητρι κορβαν ο εστιν δωρον ο εαν εξ εμου ωφεληθης
Mark 7:11 But ye say, If a man shall say to his father or mother, It is Corban, that is to say, a gift, by whatsoever thou mightest be profited by me; he shall be free.
Mark 7:12 και ουκετι αφιετε αυτον ουδεν ποιησαι τω πατρι αυτου η τη μητρι αυτου
Mark 7:12 And ye suffer him no more to do ought for his father or his mother;
Mark 7:13 ακυρουντες τον λογον του θεου τη παραδοσει υμων η παρεδωκατε και παρομοια τοιαυτα πολλα ποιειτε
Mark 7:13 Making the word of God of none effect through your tradition, which ye have delivered: and many such like things do ye.
Mark 7:14 και προσκαλεσαμενος παντα τον οχλον ελεγεν αυτοις ακουετε μου παντες και συνιετε
Mark 7:14 And when he had called all the people unto him, he said unto them, Hearken unto me every one of you, and understand:
Mark 7:15 ουδεν εστιν εξωθεν του ανθρωπου εισπορευομενον εις αυτον ο δυναται αυτον κοινωσαι αλλα τα εκπορευομενα απ αυτου εκεινα εστιν τα κοινουντα τον ανθρωπον
Mark 7:15 There is nothing from without a man, that entering into him can defile him: but the things which come out of him, those are they that defile the man.
Mark 7:16 ει τις εχει ωτα ακουειν ακουετω
Mark 7:16 If any man have ears to hear, let him hear.
Mark 7:17 και οτε εισηλθεν εις οικον απο του οχλου επηρωτων αυτον οι μαθηται αυτου περι της παραβολης
Mark 7:17 And when he was entered into the house from the people, his disciples asked him concerning the parable.
Mark 7:18 και λεγει αυτοις ουτως και υμεις ασυνετοι εστε ου νοειτε οτι παν το εξωθεν εισπορευομενον εις τον ανθρωπον ου δυναται αυτον κοινωσαι
Mark 7:18 And he saith unto them, Are ye so without understanding also?  Do ye not perceive, that whatsoever thing from without entereth into the man, it cannot defile him;
Mark 7:19 οτι ουκ εισπορευεται αυτου εις την καρδιαν αλλ εις την κοιλιαν και εις τον αφεδρωνα εκπορευεται καθαριζον παντα τα βρωματα
Mark 7:19 Because it entereth not into his heart, but into the belly, and goeth out into the draught, purging all meats?
Mark 7:20 ελεγεν δε οτι το εκ του ανθρωπου εκπορευομενον εκεινο κοινοι τον ανθρωπον
Mark 7:20 And he said, That which cometh out of the man, that defileth the man.
Mark 7:21 εσωθεν γαρ εκ της καρδιας των ανθρωπων οι διαλογισμοι οι κακοι εκπορευονται μοιχειαι πορνειαι φονοι
Mark 7:21 For from within, out of the heart of men, proceed evil thoughts, adulteries, fornications, murders,
Mark 7:22 κλοπαι πλεονεξιαι πονηριαι δολος ασελγεια οφθαλμος πονηρος βλασφημια υπερηφανια αφροσυνη
Mark 7:22 Thefts, covetousness, wickedness, deceit, lasciviousness, an evil eye, blasphemy, pride, foolishness:
Mark 7:23 παντα ταυτα τα πονηρα εσωθεν εκπορευεται και κοινοι τον ανθρωπον
Mark 7:23 All these evil things come from within, and defile the man.
Mark 7:24 και εκειθεν αναστας απηλθεν εις τα μεθορια τυρου και σιδωνος και εισελθων εις την οικιαν ουδενα ηθελεν γνωναι και ουκ ηδυνηθη λαθειν
Mark 7:24 And from thence he arose, and went into the borders of Tyre and Sidon, and entered into an house, and would have no man know it: but he could not be hid.
Mark 7:25 ακουσασα γαρ γυνη περι αυτου ης ειχεν το θυγατριον αυτης πνευμα ακαθαρτον ελθουσα προσεπεσεν προς τους ποδας αυτου
Mark 7:25 For a certain woman, whose young daughter had an unclean spirit, heard of him, and came and fell at his feet:
Mark 7:26 ην δε η γυνη ελληνις συροφοινισσα τω γενει και ηρωτα αυτον ινα το δαιμονιον εκβαλλη εκ της θυγατρος αυτης
Mark 7:26 The woman was a Greek, a Syrophenician by nation; and she besought him that he would cast forth the devil out of her daughter.
Mark 7:27 ο δε ιησους ειπεν αυτη αφες πρωτον χορτασθηναι τα τεκνα ου γαρ καλον εστιν λαβειν τον αρτον των τεκνων και βαλειν τοις κυναριοις
Mark 7:27 But Jesus said unto her, Let the children first be filled: for it is not meet to take the children's bread, and to cast it unto the dogs.
Mark 7:28 η δε απεκριθη και λεγει αυτω ναι κυριε και γαρ τα κυναρια υποκατω της τραπεζης εσθιει απο των ψιχιων των παιδιων
Mark 7:28 And she answered and said unto him, Yes, Lord: yet the dogs under the table eat of the children's crumbs.
Mark 7:29 και ειπεν αυτη δια τουτον τον λογον υπαγε εξεληλυθεν το δαιμονιον εκ της θυγατρος σου
Mark 7:29 And he said unto her, For this saying go thy way; the devil is gone out of thy daughter.
Mark 7:30 και απελθουσα εις τον οικον αυτης ευρεν το δαιμονιον εξεληλυθος και την θυγατερα βεβλημενην επι της κλινης
Mark 7:30 And when she was come to her house, she found the devil gone out, and her daughter laid upon the bed.
Mark 7:31 και παλιν εξελθων εκ των οριων τυρου και σιδωνος ηλθεν προς την θαλασσαν της γαλιλαιας ανα μεσον των οριων δεκαπολεως
Mark 7:31 And again, departing from the coasts of Tyre and Sidon, he came unto the sea of Galilee, through the midst of the coasts of Decapolis.
Mark 7:32 και φερουσιν αυτω κωφον μογιλαλον και παρακαλουσιν αυτον ινα επιθη αυτω την χειρα
Mark 7:32 And they bring unto him one that was deaf, and had an impediment in his speech; and they beseech him to put his hand upon him.
Mark 7:33 και απολαβομενος αυτον απο του οχλου κατ ιδιαν εβαλεν τους δακτυλους αυτου εις τα ωτα αυτου και πτυσας ηψατο της γλωσσης αυτου
Mark 7:33 And he took him aside from the multitude, and put his fingers into his ears, and he spit, and touched his tongue;
Mark 7:34 και αναβλεψας εις τον ουρανον εστεναξεν και λεγει αυτω εφφαθα ο εστιν διανοιχθητι
Mark 7:34 And looking up to heaven, he sighed, and saith unto him, Ephphatha, that is, Be opened.
Mark 7:35 και ευθεως διηνοιχθησαν αυτου αι ακοαι και ελυθη ο δεσμος της γλωσσης αυτου και ελαλει ορθως
Mark 7:35 And straightway his ears were opened, and the string of his tongue was loosed, and he spake plain.
Mark 7:36 και διεστειλατο αυτοις ινα μηδενι ειπωσιν οσον δε αυτος αυτοις διεστελλετο μαλλον περισσοτερον εκηρυσσον
Mark 7:36 And he charged them that they should tell no man: but the more he charged them, so much the more a great deal they published it;
Mark 7:37 και υπερπερισσως εξεπλησσοντο λεγοντες καλως παντα πεποιηκεν και τους κωφους ποιει ακουειν και τους αλαλους λαλειν
Mark 7:37 And were beyond measure astonished, saying, He hath done all things well: he maketh both the deaf to hear, and the dumb to speak.
Mark 8:1 εν εκειναις ταις ημεραις παμπολλου οχλου οντος και μη εχοντων τι φαγωσιν προσκαλεσαμενος ο ιησους τους μαθητας αυτου λεγει αυτοις
Mark 8:1 In those days the multitude being very great, and having nothing to eat, Jesus called his disciples unto him, and saith unto them,
Mark 8:2 σπλαγχνιζομαι επι τον οχλον οτι ηδη ημερας τρεις προσμενουσιν μοι και ουκ εχουσιν τι φαγωσιν
Mark 8:2 I have compassion on the multitude, because they have now been with me three days, and have nothing to eat:
Mark 8:3 και εαν απολυσω αυτους νηστεις εις οικον αυτων εκλυθησονται εν τη οδω τινες γαρ αυτων μακροθεν ηκασιν
Mark 8:3 And if I send them away fasting to their own houses, they will faint by the way: for divers of them came from far.
Mark 8:4 και απεκριθησαν αυτω οι μαθηται αυτου ποθεν τουτους δυνησεται τις ωδε χορτασαι αρτων επ ερημιας
Mark 8:4 And his disciples answered him, From whence can a man satisfy these men with bread here in the wilderness?
Mark 8:5 και επηρωτα αυτους ποσους εχετε αρτους οι δε ειπον επτα
Mark 8:5 And he asked them, How many loaves have ye? And they said, Seven.
Mark 8:6 και παρηγγειλεν τω οχλω αναπεσειν επι της γης και λαβων τους επτα αρτους ευχαριστησας εκλασεν και εδιδου τοις μαθηταις αυτου ινα παραθωσιν και παρεθηκαν τω οχλω
Mark 8:6 And he commanded the people to sit down on the ground: and he took the seven loaves, and gave thanks, and brake, and gave to his disciples to set before them; and they did set them before the people.
Mark 8:7 και ειχον ιχθυδια ολιγα και ευλογησας ειπεν παραθειναι και αυτα
Mark 8:7 And they had a few small fishes: and he blessed, and commanded to set them also before them.
Mark 8:8 εφαγον δε και εχορτασθησαν και ηραν περισσευματα κλασματων επτα σπυριδας
Mark 8:8 So they did eat, and were filled: and they took up of the broken meat that was left seven baskets.
Mark 8:9 ησαν δε οι φαγοντες ως τετρακισχιλιοι και απελυσεν αυτους
Mark 8:9 And they that had eaten were about four thousand: and he sent them away.
Mark 8:10 και ευθεως εμβας εις το πλοιον μετα των μαθητων αυτου ηλθεν εις τα μερη δαλμανουθα
Mark 8:10 And straightway he entered into a ship with his disciples, and came into the parts of Dalmanutha.
Mark 8:11 και εξηλθον οι φαρισαιοι και ηρξαντο συζητειν αυτω ζητουντες παρ αυτου σημειον απο του ουρανου πειραζοντες αυτον
Mark 8:11 And the Pharisees came forth, and began to question with him, seeking of him a sign from heaven, tempting him.
Mark 8:12 και αναστεναξας τω πνευματι αυτου λεγει τι η γενεα αυτη σημειον επιζητει αμην λεγω υμιν ει δοθησεται τη γενεα ταυτη σημειον
Mark 8:12 And he sighed deeply in his spirit, and saith, Why doth this generation seek after a sign? verily I say unto you, There shall no sign be given unto this generation.
Mark 8:13 και αφεις αυτους εμβας παλιν εις το πλοιον απηλθεν εις το περαν
Mark 8:13 And he left them, and entering into the ship again departed to the other side.
Mark 8:14 και επελαθοντο λαβειν αρτους και ει μη ενα αρτον ουκ ειχον μεθ εαυτων εν τω πλοιω
Mark 8:14 Now the disciples had forgotten to take bread, neither had they in the ship with them more than one loaf.
Mark 8:15 και διεστελλετο αυτοις λεγων ορατε βλεπετε απο της ζυμης των φαρισαιων και της ζυμης ηρωδου
Mark 8:15 And he charged them, saying, Take heed, beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, and of the leaven of Herod.
Mark 8:16 και διελογιζοντο προς αλληλους λεγοντες οτι αρτους ουκ εχομεν
Mark 8:16 And they reasoned among themselves, saying, It is because we have no bread.
Mark 8:17 και γνους ο ιησους λεγει αυτοις τι διαλογιζεσθε οτι αρτους ουκ εχετε ουπω νοειτε ουδε συνιετε ετι πεπωρωμενην εχετε την καρδιαν υμων
Mark 8:17 And when Jesus knew it, he saith unto them, Why reason ye, because ye have no bread? perceive ye not yet, neither understand? have ye your heart yet hardened?
Mark 8:18 οφθαλμους εχοντες ου βλεπετε και ωτα εχοντες ουκ ακουετε και ου μνημονευετε
Mark 8:18 Having eyes, see ye not? and having ears, hear ye not? and do ye not remember?
Mark 8:19 οτε τους πεντε αρτους εκλασα εις τους πεντακισχιλιους ποσους κοφινους πληρεις κλασματων ηρατε λεγουσιν αυτω δωδεκα
Mark 8:19 When I brake the five loaves among five thousand, how many baskets full of fragments took ye up? They say unto him, Twelve.
Mark 8:20 οτε δε τους επτα εις τους τετρακισχιλιους ποσων σπυριδων πληρωματα κλασματων ηρατε οι δε ειπον επτα
Mark 8:20 And when the seven among four thousand, how many baskets full of fragments took ye up? And they said, Seven.
Mark 8:21 και ελεγεν αυτοις πως ου συνιετε
Mark 8:21 And he said unto them, How is it that ye do not understand?
Mark 8:22 και ερχεται εις βηθσαιδαν και φερουσιν αυτω τυφλον και παρακαλουσιν αυτον ινα αυτου αψηται
Mark 8:22 And he cometh to Bethsaida; and they bring a blind man unto him, and besought him to touch him.
Mark 8:23 και επιλαβομενος της χειρος του τυφλου εξηγαγεν αυτον εξω της κωμης και πτυσας εις τα ομματα αυτου επιθεις τας χειρας αυτω επηρωτα αυτον ει τι βλεπει
Mark 8:23 And he took the blind man by the hand, and led him out of the town; and when he had spit on his eyes, and put his hands upon him, he asked him if he saw ought.
Mark 8:24 και αναβλεψας ελεγεν βλεπω τους ανθρωπους οτι ως δενδρα ορω περιπατουντας
Mark 8:24 And he looked up, and said, I see men as trees, walking.
Mark 8:25 ειτα παλιν επεθηκεν τας χειρας επι τους οφθαλμους αυτου και εποιησεν αυτον αναβλεψαι και αποκατεσταθη και ενεβλεψεν τηλαυγως απαντας
Mark 8:25 After that he put his hands again upon his eyes, and made him look up: and he was restored, and saw every man clearly.
Mark 8:26 και απεστειλεν αυτον εις τον οικον αυτου λεγων μηδε εις την κωμην εισελθης μηδε ειπης τινι εν τη κωμη
Mark 8:26 And he sent him away to his house, saying, Neither go into the town, nor tell it to any in the town.
Mark 8:27 και εξηλθεν ο ιησους και οι μαθηται αυτου εις τας κωμας καισαρειας της φιλιππου και εν τη οδω επηρωτα τους μαθητας αυτου λεγων αυτοις τινα με λεγουσιν οι ανθρωποι ειναι
Mark 8:27 And Jesus went out, and his disciples, into the towns of Caesarea Philippi: and by the way he asked his disciples, saying unto them, Whom do men say that I am?
Mark 8:28 οι δε απεκριθησαν ιωαννην τον βαπτιστην και αλλοι ηλιαν αλλοι δε ενα των προφητων
Mark 8:28 And they answered, John the Baptist; but some say, Elias; and others, One of the prophets.
Mark 8:29 και αυτος λεγει αυτοις υμεις δε τινα με λεγετε ειναι αποκριθεις δε ο πετρος λεγει αυτω συ ει ο χριστος
Mark 8:29 And he saith unto them, But whom say ye that I am? And Peter answereth and saith unto him, Thou art the Christ.
Mark 8:30 και επετιμησεν αυτοις ινα μηδενι λεγωσιν περι αυτου
Mark 8:30 And he charged them that they should tell no man of him.
Mark 8:31 και ηρξατο διδασκειν αυτους οτι δει τον υιον του ανθρωπου πολλα παθειν και αποδοκιμασθηναι απο των πρεσβυτερων και αρχιερεων και γραμματεων και αποκτανθηναι και μετα τρεις ημερας αναστηναι
Mark 8:31 And he began to teach them, that the Son of man must suffer many things, and be rejected of the elders, and of the chief priests, and scribes, and be killed, and after three days rise again.
Mark 8:32 και παρρησια τον λογον ελαλει και προσλαβομενος αυτον ο πετρος ηρξατο επιτιμαν αυτω
Mark 8:32 And he spake that saying openly. And Peter took him, and began to rebuke him.
Mark 8:33 ο δε επιστραφεις και ιδων τους μαθητας αυτου επετιμησεν τω πετρω λεγων υπαγε οπισω μου σατανα οτι ου φρονεις τα του θεου αλλα τα των ανθρωπων
Mark 8:33 But when he had turned about and looked on his disciples, he rebuked Peter, saying, Get thee behind me, Satan: for thou savourest not the things that be of God, but the things that be of men.
Mark 8:34 και προσκαλεσαμενος τον οχλον συν τοις μαθηταις αυτου ειπεν αυτοις οστις θελει οπισω μου ελθειν απαρνησασθω εαυτον και αρατω τον σταυρον αυτου και ακολουθειτω μοι
Mark 8:34 And when he had called the people unto him with his disciples also, he said unto them, Whosoever will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me.
Mark 8:35 ος γαρ αν θελη την ψυχην αυτου σωσαι απολεσει αυτην ος δ αν απολεση την ψυχην αυτου ενεκεν εμου και του ευαγγελιου ουτος σωσει αυτην
Mark 8:35 For whosoever will save his life shall lose it; but whosoever shall lose his life for my sake and the gospel's, the same shall save it.
Mark 8:36 τι γαρ ωφελησει ανθρωπον εαν κερδηση τον κοσμον ολον και ζημιωθη την ψυχην αυτου
Mark 8:36 For what shall it profit a man, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul?
Mark 8:37 η τι δωσει ανθρωπος ανταλλαγμα της ψυχης αυτου
Mark 8:37 Or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul?
Mark 8:38 ος γαρ αν επαισχυνθη με και τους εμους λογους εν τη γενεα ταυτη τη μοιχαλιδι και αμαρτωλω και ο υιος του ανθρωπου επαισχυνθησεται αυτον οταν ελθη εν τη δοξη του πατρος αυτου μετα των αγγελων των αγιων
Mark 8:38 Whosoever therefore shall be ashamed of me and of my words in this adulterous and sinful generation; of him also shall the Son of man be ashamed, when he cometh in the glory of his Father with the holy angels.
Mark 9:1 και ελεγεν αυτοις αμην λεγω υμιν οτι εισιν τινες των ωδε εστηκοτων οιτινες ου μη γευσωνται θανατου εως αν ιδωσιν την βασιλειαν του θεου εληλυθυιαν εν δυναμει
Mark 9:1 And he said unto them, Verily I say unto you, That there be some of them that stand here, which shall not taste of death, till they have seen the kingdom of God come with power.
Mark 9:2 και μεθ ημερας εξ παραλαμβανει ο ιησους τον πετρον και τον ιακωβον και τον ιωαννην και αναφερει αυτους εις ορος υψηλον κατ ιδιαν μονους και μετεμορφωθη εμπροσθεν αυτων
Mark 9:2 And after six days Jesus taketh with him Peter, and James, and John, and leadeth them up into an high mountain apart by themselves: and he was transfigured before them.
Mark 9:3 και τα ιματια αυτου εγενετο στιλβοντα λευκα λιαν ως χιων οια γναφευς επι της γης ου δυναται λευκαναι
Mark 9:3 And his raiment became shining, exceeding white as snow; so as no fuller on earth can white them.
Mark 9:4 και ωφθη αυτοις ηλιας συν μωσει και ησαν συλλαλουντες τω ιησου
Mark 9:4 And there appeared unto them Elias with Moses: and they were talking with Jesus.
Mark 9:5 και αποκριθεις ο πετρος λεγει τω ιησου ραββι καλον εστιν ημας ωδε ειναι και ποιησωμεν σκηνας τρεις σοι μιαν και μωσει μιαν και ηλια μιαν
Mark 9:5 And Peter answered and said to Jesus, Master, it is good for us to be here: and let us make three tabernacles; one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elias.
Mark 9:6 ου γαρ ηδει τι λαληση ησαν γαρ εκφοβοι
Mark 9:6 For he wist not what to say; for they were sore afraid.
Mark 9:7 και εγενετο νεφελη επισκιαζουσα αυτοις και ηλθεν φωνη εκ της νεφελης λεγουσα ουτος εστιν ο υιος μου ο αγαπητος αυτου ακουετε
Mark 9:7 And there was a cloud that overshadowed them: and a voice came out of the cloud, saying, This is my beloved Son: hear him.
Mark 9:8 και εξαπινα περιβλεψαμενοι ουκετι ουδενα ειδον αλλα τον ιησουν μονον μεθ εαυτων
Mark 9:8 And suddenly, when they had looked round about, they saw no man any more, save Jesus only with themselves.
Mark 9:9 καταβαινοντων δε αυτων απο του ορους διεστειλατο αυτοις ινα μηδενι διηγησωνται α ειδον ει μη οταν ο υιος του ανθρωπου εκ νεκρων αναστη
Mark 9:9 And as they came down from the mountain, he charged them that they should tell no man what things they had seen, till the Son of man were risen from the dead.
Mark 9:10 και τον λογον εκρατησαν προς εαυτους συζητουντες τι εστιν το εκ νεκρων αναστηναι
Mark 9:10 And they kept that saying with themselves, questioning one with another what the rising from the dead should mean.
Mark 9:11 και επηρωτων αυτον λεγοντες οτι λεγουσιν οι γραμματεις οτι ηλιαν δει ελθειν πρωτον
Mark 9:11 And they asked him, saying, Why say the scribes that Elias must first come?
Mark 9:12 ο δε αποκριθεις ειπεν αυτοις ηλιας μεν ελθων πρωτον αποκαθιστα παντα και πως γεγραπται επι τον υιον του ανθρωπου ινα πολλα παθη και εξουδενωθη
Mark 9:12 And he answered and told them, Elias verily cometh first, and restoreth all things; and how it is written of the Son of man, that he must suffer many things, and be set at nought.
Mark 9:13 αλλα λεγω υμιν οτι και ηλιας εληλυθεν και εποιησαν αυτω οσα ηθελησαν καθως γεγραπται επ αυτον
Mark 9:13 But I say unto you, That Elias is indeed come, and they have done unto him whatsoever they listed, as it is written of him.
Mark 9:14 και ελθων προς τους μαθητας ειδεν οχλον πολυν περι αυτους και γραμματεις συζητουντας αυτοις
Mark 9:14 And when he came to his disciples, he saw a great multitude about them, and the scribes questioning with them.
Mark 9:15 και ευθεως πας ο οχλος ιδων αυτον εξεθαμβηθη και προστρεχοντες ησπαζοντο αυτον
Mark 9:15 And straightway all the people, when they beheld him, were greatly amazed, and running to him saluted him.
Mark 9:16 και επηρωτησεν τους γραμματεις τι συζητειτε προς αυτους
Mark 9:16 And he asked the scribes, What question ye with them?
Mark 9:17 και αποκριθεις εις εκ του οχλου ειπεν διδασκαλε ηνεγκα τον υιον μου προς σε εχοντα πνευμα αλαλον
Mark 9:17 And one of the multitude answered and said, Master, I have brought unto thee my son, which hath a dumb spirit;
Mark 9:18 και οπου αν αυτον καταλαβη ρησσει αυτον και αφριζει και τριζει τους οδοντας αυτου και ξηραινεται και ειπον τοις μαθηταις σου ινα αυτο εκβαλωσιν και ουκ ισχυσαν
Mark 9:18 And wheresoever he taketh him, he teareth him: and he foameth, and gnasheth with his teeth, and pineth away: and I spake to thy disciples that they should cast him out; and they could not.
Mark 9:19 ο δε αποκριθεις αυτω λεγει ω γενεα απιστος εως ποτε προς υμας εσομαι εως ποτε ανεξομαι υμων φερετε αυτον προς με
Mark 9:19 He answereth him, and saith, O faithless generation, how long shall I be with you? how long shall I suffer you? bring him unto me.
Mark 9:20 και ηνεγκαν αυτον προς αυτον και ιδων αυτον ευθεως το πνευμα εσπαραξεν αυτον και πεσων επι της γης εκυλιετο αφριζων
Mark 9:20 And they brought him unto him: and when he saw him, straightway the spirit tare him; and he fell on the ground, and wallowed foaming.
Mark 9:21 και επηρωτησεν τον πατερα αυτου ποσος χρονος εστιν ως τουτο γεγονεν αυτω ο δε ειπεν παιδιοθεν
Mark 9:21 And he asked his father, How long is it ago since this came unto him? And he said, Of a child.
Mark 9:22 και πολλακις αυτον και εις πυρ εβαλεν και εις υδατα ινα απολεση αυτον αλλ ει τι δυνασαι βοηθησον ημιν σπλαγχνισθεις εφ ημας
Mark 9:22 And ofttimes it hath cast him into the fire, and into the waters, to destroy him: but if thou canst do any thing, have compassion on us, and help us.
Mark 9:23 ο δε ιησους ειπεν αυτω το ει δυνασαι πιστευσαι παντα δυνατα τω πιστευοντι
Mark 9:23 Jesus said unto him, If thou canst believe, all things are possible to him that believeth.
Mark 9:24 και ευθεως κραξας ο πατηρ του παιδιου μετα δακρυων ελεγεν πιστευω κυριε βοηθει μου τη απιστια
Mark 9:24 And straightway the father of the child cried out, and said with tears, Lord, I believe; help thou mine unbelief.
Mark 9:25 ιδων δε ο ιησους οτι επισυντρεχει οχλος επετιμησεν τω πνευματι τω ακαθαρτω λεγων αυτω το πνευμα το αλαλον και κωφον εγω σοι επιτασσω εξελθε εξ αυτου και μηκετι εισελθης εις αυτον
Mark 9:25 When Jesus saw that the people came running together, he rebuked the foul spirit, saying unto him, Thou dumb and deaf spirit, I charge thee, come out of him, and enter no more into him.
Mark 9:26 και κραξαν και πολλα σπαραξαν αυτον εξηλθεν και εγενετο ωσει νεκρος ωστε πολλους λεγειν οτι απεθανεν
Mark 9:26 And the spirit cried, and rent him sore, and came out of him: and he was as one dead; insomuch that many said, He is dead.
Mark 9:27 ο δε ιησους κρατησας αυτον της χειρος ηγειρεν αυτον και ανεστη
Mark 9:27 But Jesus took him by the hand, and lifted him up; and he arose.
Mark 9:28 και εισελθοντα αυτον εις οικον οι μαθηται αυτου επηρωτων αυτον κατ ιδιαν οτι ημεις ουκ ηδυνηθημεν εκβαλειν αυτο
Mark 9:28 And when he was come into the house, his disciples asked him privately, Why could not we cast him out?
Mark 9:29 και ειπεν αυτοις τουτο το γενος εν ουδενι δυναται εξελθειν ει μη εν προσευχη και νηστεια
Mark 9:29 And he said unto them, This kind can come forth by nothing, but by prayer and fasting.
Mark 9:30 και εκειθεν εξελθοντες παρεπορευοντο δια της γαλιλαιας και ουκ ηθελεν ινα τις γνω
Mark 9:30 And they departed thence, and passed through Galilee; and he would not that any man should know it.
Mark 9:31 εδιδασκεν γαρ τους μαθητας αυτου και ελεγεν αυτοις οτι ο υιος του ανθρωπου παραδιδοται εις χειρας ανθρωπων και αποκτενουσιν αυτον και αποκτανθεις τη τριτη ημερα αναστησεται
Mark 9:31 For he taught his disciples, and said unto them, The Son of man is delivered into the hands of men, and they shall kill him; and after that he is killed, he shall rise the third day.
Mark 9:32 οι δε ηγνοουν το ρημα και εφοβουντο αυτον επερωτησαι
Mark 9:32 But they understood not that saying, and were afraid to ask him.
Mark 9:33 και ηλθεν εις καπερναουμ και εν τη οικια γενομενος επηρωτα αυτους τι εν τη οδω προς εαυτους διελογιζεσθε
Mark 9:33 And he came to Capernaum: and being in the house he asked them, What was it that ye disputed among yourselves by the way?
Mark 9:34 οι δε εσιωπων προς αλληλους γαρ διελεχθησαν εν τη οδω τις μειζων
Mark 9:34 But they held their peace: for by the way they had disputed among themselves, who should be the greatest.
Mark 9:35 και καθισας εφωνησεν τους δωδεκα και λεγει αυτοις ει τις θελει πρωτος ειναι εσται παντων εσχατος και παντων διακονος
Mark 9:35 And he sat down, and called the twelve, and saith unto them, If any man desire to be first, the same shall be last of all, and servant of all.
Mark 9:36 και λαβων παιδιον εστησεν αυτο εν μεσω αυτων και εναγκαλισαμενος αυτο ειπεν αυτοις
Mark 9:36 And he took a child, and set him in the midst of them: and when he had taken him in his arms, he said unto them,
Mark 9:37 ος εαν εν των τοιουτων παιδιων δεξηται επι τω ονοματι μου εμε δεχεται και ος εαν εμε δεξηται ουκ εμε δεχεται αλλα τον αποστειλαντα με
Mark 9:37 Whosoever shall receive one of such children in my name, receiveth me: and whosoever shall receive me, receiveth not me, but him that sent me.
Mark 9:38 απεκριθη δε αυτω ο ιωαννης λεγων διδασκαλε ειδομεν τινα τω ονοματι σου εκβαλλοντα δαιμονια ος ουκ ακολουθει ημιν και εκωλυσαμεν αυτον οτι ουκ ακολουθει ημιν
Mark 9:38 And John answered him, saying, Master, we saw one casting out devils in thy name, and he followeth not us: and we forbad him, because he followeth not us.
Mark 9:39 ο δε ιησους ειπεν μη κωλυετε αυτον ουδεις γαρ εστιν ος ποιησει δυναμιν επι τω ονοματι μου και δυνησεται ταχυ κακολογησαι με
Mark 9:39 But Jesus said, Forbid him not: for there is no man which shall do a miracle in my name, that can lightly speak evil of me.
Mark 9:40 ος γαρ ουκ εστιν καθ υμων υπερ υμων εστιν
Mark 9:40 For he that is not against us is on our part.
Mark 9:41 ος γαρ αν ποτιση υμας ποτηριον υδατος εν τω ονοματι μου οτι χριστου εστε αμην λεγω υμιν ου μη απολεση τον μισθον αυτου
Mark 9:41 For whosoever shall give you a cup of water to drink in my name, because ye belong to Christ, verily I say unto you, he shall not lose his reward.
Mark 9:42 και ος αν σκανδαλιση ενα των μικρων των πιστευοντων εις εμε καλον εστιν αυτω μαλλον ει περικειται λιθος μυλικος περι τον τραχηλον αυτου και βεβληται εις την θαλασσαν
Mark 9:42 And whosoever shall offend one of these little ones that believe in me, it is better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck, and he were cast into the sea.
Mark 9:43 και εαν σκανδαλιζη σε η χειρ σου αποκοψον αυτην καλον σοι εστιν κυλλον εις την ζωην εισελθειν η τας δυο χειρας εχοντα απελθειν εις την γεενναν εις το πυρ το ασβεστον
Mark 9:43 And if thy hand offend thee, cut it off: it is better for thee to enter into life maimed, than having two hands to go into hell, into the fire that never shall be quenched:
Mark 9:44 οπου ο σκωληξ αυτων ου τελευτα και το πυρ ου σβεννυται
Mark 9:44 Where their worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched.
Mark 9:45 και εαν ο πους σου σκανδαλιζη σε αποκοψον αυτον καλον εστιν σοι εισελθειν εις την ζωην χωλον η τους δυο ποδας εχοντα βληθηναι εις την γεενναν εις το πυρ το ασβεστον
Mark 9:45 And if thy foot offend thee, cut it off: it is better for thee to enter halt into life, than having two feet to be cast into hell, into the fire that never shall be quenched:
Mark 9:46 οπου ο σκωληξ αυτων ου τελευτα και το πυρ ου σβεννυται
Mark 9:46 Where their worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched.
Mark 9:47 και εαν ο οφθαλμος σου σκανδαλιζη σε εκβαλε αυτον καλον σοι εστιν μονοφθαλμον εισελθειν εις την βασιλειαν του θεου η δυο οφθαλμους εχοντα βληθηναι εις την γεενναν του πυρος
Mark 9:47 And if thine eye offend thee, pluck it out: it is better for thee to enter into the kingdom of God with one eye, than having two eyes to be cast into hell fire:
Mark 9:48 οπου ο σκωληξ αυτων ου τελευτα και το πυρ ου σβεννυται
Mark 9:48 Where their worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched.
Mark 9:49 πας γαρ πυρι αλισθησεται και πασα θυσια αλι αλισθησεται
Mark 9:49 For every one shall be salted with fire, and every sacrifice shall be salted with salt.
Mark 9:50 καλον το αλας εαν δε το αλας αναλον γενηται εν τινι αυτο αρτυσετε εχετε εν εαυτοις αλας και ειρηνευετε εν αλληλοις
Mark 9:50 Salt is good: but if the salt have lost his saltness, wherewith will ye season it? Have salt in yourselves, and have peace one with another.
Mark 10:1 κακειθεν αναστας ερχεται εις τα ορια της ιουδαιας δια του περαν του ιορδανου και συμπορευονται παλιν οχλοι προς αυτον και ως ειωθει παλιν εδιδασκεν αυτους
Mark 10:1 And he arose from thence, and cometh into the coasts of Judaea by the farther side of Jordan: and the people resort unto him again; and, as he was wont, he taught them again.
Mark 10:2 και προσελθοντες οι φαρισαιοι επηρωτησαν αυτον ει εξεστιν ανδρι γυναικα απολυσαι πειραζοντες αυτον
Mark 10:2 And the Pharisees came to him, and asked him, Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife? tempting him.
Mark 10:3 ο δε αποκριθεις ειπεν αυτοις τι υμιν ενετειλατο μωσης
Mark 10:3 And he answered and said unto them, What did Moses command you?
Mark 10:4 οι δε ειπον μωσης επετρεψεν βιβλιον αποστασιου γραψαι και απολυσαι
Mark 10:4 And they said, Moses suffered to write a bill of divorcement, and to put her away.
Mark 10:5 και αποκριθεις ο ιησους ειπεν αυτοις προς την σκληροκαρδιαν υμων εγραψεν υμιν την εντολην ταυτην
Mark 10:5 And Jesus answered and said unto them, For the hardness of your heart he wrote you this precept.
Mark 10:6 απο δε αρχης κτισεως αρσεν και θηλυ εποιησεν αυτους ο θεος
Mark 10:6 But from the beginning of the creation God made them male and female.
Mark 10:7 ενεκεν τουτου καταλειψει ανθρωπος τον πατερα αυτου και την μητερα και προσκολληθησεται προς την γυναικα αυτου
Mark 10:7 For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother, and cleave to his wife;
Mark 10:8 και εσονται οι δυο εις σαρκα μιαν ωστε ουκετι εισιν δυο αλλα μια σαρξ
Mark 10:8 And they twain shall be one flesh: so then they are no more twain, but one flesh.
Mark 10:9 ο ουν ο θεος συνεζευξεν ανθρωπος μη χωριζετω
Mark 10:9 What therefore God hath joined together, let not man put asunder.
Mark 10:10 και εν τη οικια παλιν οι μαθηται αυτου περι του αυτου επηρωτησαν αυτον
Mark 10:10 And in the house his disciples asked him again of the same matter.
Mark 10:11 και λεγει αυτοις ος εαν απολυση την γυναικα αυτου και γαμηση αλλην μοιχαται επ αυτην
Mark 10:11 And he saith unto them, Whosoever shall put away his wife, and marry another, committeth adultery against her.
Mark 10:12 και εαν γυνη απολυση τον ανδρα αυτης και γαμηθη αλλω μοιχαται
Mark 10:12 And if a woman shall put away her husband, and be married to another, she committeth adultery.
Mark 10:13 και προσεφερον αυτω παιδια ινα αψηται αυτων οι δε μαθηται επετιμων τοις προσφερουσιν
Mark 10:13 And they brought young children to him, that he should touch them: and his disciples rebuked those that brought them.
Mark 10:14 ιδων δε ο ιησους ηγανακτησεν και ειπεν αυτοις αφετε τα παιδια ερχεσθαι προς με και μη κωλυετε αυτα των γαρ τοιουτων εστιν η βασιλεια του θεου
Mark 10:14 But when Jesus saw it, he was much displeased, and said unto them, Suffer the little children to come unto me, and forbid them not: for of such is the kingdom of God.
Mark 10:15 αμην λεγω υμιν ος εαν μη δεξηται την βασιλειαν του θεου ως παιδιον ου μη εισελθη εις αυτην
Mark 10:15 Verily I say unto you, Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child, he shall not enter therein.
Mark 10:16 και εναγκαλισαμενος αυτα τιθεις τας χειρας επ αυτα ηυλογει αυτα
Mark 10:16 And he took them up in his arms, put his hands upon them, and blessed them.
Mark 10:17 και εκπορευομενου αυτου εις οδον προσδραμων εις και γονυπετησας αυτον επηρωτα αυτον διδασκαλε αγαθε τι ποιησω ινα ζωην αιωνιον κληρονομησω
Mark 10:17 And when he was gone forth into the way, there came one running, and kneeled to him, and asked him, Good Master, what shall I do that I may inherit eternal life?
Mark 10:18 ο δε ιησους ειπεν αυτω τι με λεγεις αγαθον ουδεις αγαθος ει μη εις ο θεος
Mark 10:18 And Jesus said unto him, Why callest thou me good? there is none good but one, that is, God.
Mark 10:19 τας εντολας οιδας μη μοιχευσης μη φονευσης μη κλεψης μη ψευδομαρτυρησης μη αποστερησης τιμα τον πατερα σου και την μητερα
Mark 10:19 Thou knowest the commandments, Do not commit adultery, Do not kill, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Defraud not, Honour thy father and mother.
Mark 10:20 ο δε αποκριθεις ειπεν αυτω διδασκαλε ταυτα παντα εφυλαξαμην εκ νεοτητος μου
Mark 10:20 And he answered and said unto him, Master, all these have I observed from my youth.
Mark 10:21 ο δε ιησους εμβλεψας αυτω ηγαπησεν αυτον και ειπεν αυτω εν σοι υστερει υπαγε οσα εχεις πωλησον και δος τοις πτωχοις και εξεις θησαυρον εν ουρανω και δευρο ακολουθει μοι αρας τον σταυρον
Mark 10:21 Then Jesus beholding him loved him, and said unto him, One thing thou lackest: go thy way, sell whatsoever thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come, take up the cross, and follow me.
Mark 10:22 ο δε στυγνασας επι τω λογω απηλθεν λυπουμενος ην γαρ εχων κτηματα πολλα
Mark 10:22 And he was sad at that saying, and went away grieved: for he had great possessions.
Mark 10:23 και περιβλεψαμενος ο ιησους λεγει τοις μαθηταις αυτου πως δυσκολως οι τα χρηματα εχοντες εις την βασιλειαν του θεου εισελευσονται
Mark 10:23 And Jesus looked round about, and saith unto his disciples, How hardly shall they that have riches enter into the kingdom of God!
Mark 10:24 οι δε μαθηται εθαμβουντο επι τοις λογοις αυτου ο δε ιησους παλιν αποκριθεις λεγει αυτοις τεκνα πως δυσκολον εστιν τους πεποιθοτας επι τοις χρημασιν εις την βασιλειαν του θεου εισελθειν
Mark 10:24 And the disciples were astonished at his words. But Jesus answereth again, and saith unto them, Children, how hard is it for them that trust in riches to enter into the kingdom of God!
Mark 10:25 ευκοπωτερον εστιν καμηλον δια της τρυμαλιας της ραφιδος εισελθειν η πλουσιον εις την βασιλειαν του θεου εισελθειν
Mark 10:25 It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God.
Mark 10:26 οι δε περισσως εξεπλησσοντο λεγοντες προς εαυτους και τις δυναται σωθηναι
Mark 10:26 And they were astonished out of measure, saying among themselves, Who then can be saved?
Mark 10:27 εμβλεψας δε αυτοις ο ιησους λεγει παρα ανθρωποις αδυνατον αλλ ου παρα τω θεω παντα γαρ δυνατα εστιν παρα τω θεω
Mark 10:27 And Jesus looking upon them saith, With men it is impossible, but not with God: for with God all things are possible.
Mark 10:28 και ηρξατο ο πετρος λεγειν αυτω ιδου ημεις αφηκαμεν παντα και ηκολουθησαμεν σοι
Mark 10:28 Then Peter began to say unto him, Lo, we have left all, and have followed thee.
Mark 10:29 αποκριθεις δε ο ιησους ειπεν αμην λεγω υμιν ουδεις εστιν ος αφηκεν οικιαν η αδελφους η αδελφας η πατερα η μητερα η γυναικα η τεκνα η αγρους ενεκεν εμου και του ευαγγελιου
Mark 10:29 And Jesus answered and said, Verily I say unto you, There is no man that hath left house, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, for my sake, and the gospel's,
Mark 10:30 εαν μη λαβη εκατονταπλασιονα νυν εν τω καιρω τουτω οικιας και αδελφους και αδελφας και μητερας και τεκνα και αγρους μετα διωγμων και εν τω αιωνι τω ερχομενω ζωην αιωνιον
Mark 10:30 But he shall receive an hundredfold now in this time, houses, and brethren, and sisters, and mothers, and children, and lands, with persecutions; and in the world to come eternal life.
Mark 10:31 πολλοι δε εσονται πρωτοι εσχατοι και οι εσχατοι πρωτοι
Mark 10:31 But many that are first shall be last; and the last first.
Mark 10:32 ησαν δε εν τη οδω αναβαινοντες εις ιεροσολυμα και ην προαγων αυτους ο ιησους και εθαμβουντο και ακολουθουντες εφοβουντο και παραλαβων παλιν τους δωδεκα ηρξατο αυτοις λεγειν τα μελλοντα αυτω συμβαινειν
Mark 10:32 And they were in the way going up to Jerusalem; and Jesus went before them: and they were amazed; and as they followed, they were afraid. And he took again the twelve, and began to tell them what things should happen unto him,
Mark 10:33 οτι ιδου αναβαινομεν εις ιεροσολυμα και ο υιος του ανθρωπου παραδοθησεται τοις αρχιερευσιν και τοις γραμματευσιν και κατακρινουσιν αυτον θανατω και παραδωσουσιν αυτον τοις εθνεσιν
Mark 10:33 Saying, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem; and the Son of man shall be delivered unto the chief priests, and unto the scribes; and they shall condemn him to death, and shall deliver him to the Gentiles:
Mark 10:34 και εμπαιξουσιν αυτω και μαστιγωσουσιν αυτον και εμπτυσουσιν αυτω και αποκτενουσιν αυτον και τη τριτη ημερα αναστησεται
Mark 10:34 And they shall mock him, and shall scourge him, and shall spit upon him, and shall kill him: and the third day he shall rise again.
Mark 10:35 και προσπορευονται αυτω ιακωβος και ιωαννης οι υιοι ζεβεδαιου λεγοντες διδασκαλε θελομεν ινα ο εαν αιτησωμεν ποιησης ημιν
Mark 10:35 And James and John, the sons of Zebedee, come unto him, saying, Master, we would that thou shouldest do for us whatsoever we shall desire.
Mark 10:36 ο δε ειπεν αυτοις τι θελετε ποιησαι με υμιν
Mark 10:36 And he said unto them, What would ye that I should do for you?
Mark 10:37 οι δε ειπον αυτω δος ημιν ινα εις εκ δεξιων σου και εις εξ ευωνυμων σου καθισωμεν εν τη δοξη σου
Mark 10:37 They said unto him, Grant unto us that we may sit, one on thy right hand, and the other on thy left hand, in thy glory.
Mark 10:38 ο δε ιησους ειπεν αυτοις ουκ οιδατε τι αιτεισθε δυνασθε πιειν το ποτηριον ο εγω πινω και το βαπτισμα ο εγω βαπτιζομαι βαπτισθηναι
Mark 10:38 But Jesus said unto them, Ye know not what ye ask: can ye drink of the cup that I drink of? and be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with?
Mark 10:39 οι δε ειπον αυτω δυναμεθα ο δε ιησους ειπεν αυτοις το μεν ποτηριον ο εγω πινω πιεσθε και το βαπτισμα ο εγω βαπτιζομαι βαπτισθησεσθε
Mark 10:39 And they said unto him, We can. And Jesus said unto them, Ye shall indeed drink of the cup that I drink of; and with the baptism that I am baptized withal shall ye be baptized:
Mark 10:40 το δε καθισαι εκ δεξιων μου και εξ ευωνυμων μου ουκ εστιν εμον δουναι αλλ οις ητοιμασται
Mark 10:40 But to sit on my right hand and on my left hand is not mine to give; but it shall be given to them for whom it is prepared.
Mark 10:41 και ακουσαντες οι δεκα ηρξαντο αγανακτειν περι ιακωβου και ιωαννου
Mark 10:41 And when the ten heard it, they began to be much displeased with James and John.
Mark 10:42 ο δε ιησους προσκαλεσαμενος αυτους λεγει αυτοις οιδατε οτι οι δοκουντες αρχειν των εθνων κατακυριευουσιν αυτων και οι μεγαλοι αυτων κατεξουσιαζουσιν αυτων
Mark 10:42 But Jesus called them to him, and saith unto them, Ye know that they which are accounted to rule over the Gentiles exercise lordship over them; and their great ones exercise authority upon them.
Mark 10:43 ουχ ουτως δε εσται εν υμιν αλλ ος εαν θελη γενεσθαι μεγας εν υμιν εσται διακονος υμων
Mark 10:43 But so shall it not be among you: but whosoever will be great among you, shall be your minister:
Mark 10:44 και ος αν θελη υμων γενεσθαι πρωτος εσται παντων δουλος
Mark 10:44 And whosoever of you will be the chiefest, shall be servant of all.
Mark 10:45 και γαρ ο υιος του ανθρωπου ουκ ηλθεν διακονηθηναι αλλα διακονησαι και δουναι την ψυχην αυτου λυτρον αντι πολλων
Mark 10:45 For even the Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many.
Mark 10:46 και ερχονται εις ιεριχω και εκπορευομενου αυτου απο ιεριχω και των μαθητων αυτου και οχλου ικανου υιος τιμαιου βαρτιμαιος ο τυφλος εκαθητο παρα την οδον προσαιτων
Mark 10:46 And they came to Jericho: and as he went out of Jericho with his disciples and a great number of people, blind Bartimaeus, the son of Timaeus, sat by the highway side begging.
Mark 10:47 και ακουσας οτι ιησους ο ναζωραιος εστιν ηρξατο κραζειν και λεγειν ο υιος δαβιδ ιησου ελεησον με
Mark 10:47 And when he heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began to cry out, and say, Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy on me.
Mark 10:48 και επετιμων αυτω πολλοι ινα σιωπηση ο δε πολλω μαλλον εκραζεν υιε δαβιδ ελεησον με
Mark 10:48 And many charged him that he should hold his peace: but he cried the more a great deal, Thou son of David, have mercy on me.
Mark 10:49 και στας ο ιησους ειπεν αυτον φωνηθηναι και φωνουσιν τον τυφλον λεγοντες αυτω θαρσει εγειραι φωνει σε
Mark 10:49 And Jesus stood still, and commanded him to be called. And they call the blind man, saying unto him, Be of good comfort, rise; he calleth thee.
Mark 10:50 ο δε αποβαλων το ιματιον αυτου αναστας ηλθεν προς τον ιησουν
Mark 10:50 And he, casting away his garment, rose, and came to Jesus.
Mark 10:51 και αποκριθεις λεγει αυτω ο ιησους τι θελεις ποιησω σοι ο δε τυφλος ειπεν αυτω ραββονι ινα αναβλεψω
Mark 10:51 And Jesus answered and said unto him, What wilt thou that I should do unto thee? The blind man said unto him, Lord, that I might receive my sight.
Mark 10:52 ο δε ιησους ειπεν αυτω υπαγε η πιστις σου σεσωκεν σε και ευθεως ανεβλεψεν και ηκολουθει τω ιησου εν τη οδω
Mark 10:52 And Jesus said unto him, Go thy way; thy faith hath made thee whole. And immediately he received his sight, and followed Jesus in the way.
Mark 11:1 και οτε εγγιζουσιν εις ιερουσαλημ εις βηθφαγη και βηθανιαν προς το ορος των ελαιων αποστελλει δυο των μαθητων αυτου
Mark 11:1 And when they came nigh to Jerusalem, unto Bethphage and Bethany, at the mount of Olives, he sendeth forth two of his disciples,
Mark 11:2 και λεγει αυτοις υπαγετε εις την κωμην την κατεναντι υμων και ευθεως εισπορευομενοι εις αυτην ευρησετε πωλον δεδεμενον εφ ον ουδεις ανθρωπων κεκαθικεν λυσαντες αυτον αγαγετε
Mark 11:2 And saith unto them, Go your way into the village over against you: and as soon as ye be entered into it, ye shall find a colt tied, whereon never man sat; loose him, and bring him.
Mark 11:3 και εαν τις υμιν ειπη τι ποιειτε τουτο ειπατε οτι ο κυριος αυτου χρειαν εχει και ευθεως αυτον αποστελει ωδε
Mark 11:3 And if any man say unto you, Why do ye this? say ye that the Lord hath need of him; and straightway he will send him hither.
Mark 11:4 απηλθον δε και ευρον τον πωλον δεδεμενον προς την θυραν εξω επι του αμφοδου και λυουσιν αυτον
Mark 11:4 And they went their way, and found the colt tied by the door without in a place where two ways met; and they loose him.
Mark 11:5 και τινες των εκει εστηκοτων ελεγον αυτοις τι ποιειτε λυοντες τον πωλον
Mark 11:5 And certain of them that stood there said unto them, What do ye, loosing the colt?
Mark 11:6 οι δε ειπον αυτοις καθως ενετειλατο ο ιησους και αφηκαν αυτους
Mark 11:6 And they said unto them even as Jesus had commanded: and they let them go.
Mark 11:7 και ηγαγον τον πωλον προς τον ιησουν και επεβαλον αυτω τα ιματια αυτων και εκαθισεν επ αυτω
Mark 11:7 And they brought the colt to Jesus, and cast their garments on him; and he sat upon him.
Mark 11:8 πολλοι δε τα ιματια αυτων εστρωσαν εις την οδον αλλοι δε στοιβαδας εκοπτον εκ των δενδρων και εστρωννυον εις την οδον
Mark 11:8 And many spread their garments in the way: and others cut down branches off the trees, and strawed them in the way.
Mark 11:9 και οι προαγοντες και οι ακολουθουντες εκραζον λεγοντες ωσαννα ευλογημενος ο ερχομενος εν ονοματι κυριου
Mark 11:9 And they that went before, and they that followed, cried, saying, Hosanna; Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord:
Mark 11:10 ευλογημενη η ερχομενη βασιλεια εν ονοματι κυριου του πατρος ημων δαβιδ ωσαννα εν τοις υψιστοις
Mark 11:10 Blessed be the kingdom of our father David, that cometh in the name of the Lord: Hosanna in the highest.
Mark 11:11 και εισηλθεν εις ιεροσολυμα ο ιησους και εις το ιερον και περιβλεψαμενος παντα οψιας ηδη ουσης της ωρας εξηλθεν εις βηθανιαν μετα των δωδεκα
Mark 11:11 And Jesus entered into Jerusalem, and into the temple: and when he had looked round about upon all things, and now the eventide was come, he went out unto Bethany with the twelve.
Mark 11:12 και τη επαυριον εξελθοντων αυτων απο βηθανιας επεινασεν
Mark 11:12 And on the morrow, when they were come from Bethany, he was hungry:
Mark 11:13 και ιδων συκην μακροθεν εχουσαν φυλλα ηλθεν ει αρα ευρησει τι εν αυτη και ελθων επ αυτην ουδεν ευρεν ει μη φυλλα ου γαρ ην καιρος συκων
Mark 11:13 And seeing a fig tree afar off having leaves, he came, if haply he might find any thing thereon: and when he came to it, he found nothing but leaves; for the time of figs was not yet.
Mark 11:14 και αποκριθεις ο ιησους ειπεν αυτη μηκετι εκ σου εις τον αιωνα μηδεις καρπον φαγοι και ηκουον οι μαθηται αυτου
Mark 11:14 And Jesus answered and said unto it, No man eat fruit of thee hereafter for ever. And his disciples heard it.
Mark 11:15 και ερχονται εις ιεροσολυμα και εισελθων ο ιησους εις το ιερον ηρξατο εκβαλλειν τους πωλουντας και αγοραζοντας εν τω ιερω και τας τραπεζας των κολλυβιστων και τας καθεδρας των πωλουντων τας περιστερας κατεστρεψεν
Mark 11:15 And they come to Jerusalem: and Jesus went into the temple, and began to cast out them that sold and bought in the temple, and overthrew the tables of the moneychangers, and the seats of them that sold doves;
Mark 11:16 και ουκ ηφιεν ινα τις διενεγκη σκευος δια του ιερου
Mark 11:16 And would not suffer that any man should carry any vessel through the temple.
Mark 11:17 και εδιδασκεν λεγων αυτοις ου γεγραπται οτι ο οικος μου οικος προσευχης κληθησεται πασιν τοις εθνεσιν υμεις δε εποιησατε αυτον σπηλαιον ληστων
Mark 11:17 And he taught, saying unto them, Is it not written, My house shall be called of all nations the house of prayer? but ye have made it a den of thieves.
Mark 11:18 και ηκουσαν οι γραμματεις και οι αρχιερεις και εζητουν πως αυτον απολεσουσιν εφοβουντο γαρ αυτον οτι πας ο οχλος εξεπλησσετο επι τη διδαχη αυτου
Mark 11:18 And the scribes and chief priests heard it, and sought how they might destroy him: for they feared him, because all the people was astonished at his doctrine.
Mark 11:19 και οτε οψε εγενετο εξεπορευετο εξω της πολεως
Mark 11:19 And when even was come, he went out of the city.
Mark 11:20 και πρωι παραπορευομενοι ειδον την συκην εξηραμμενην εκ ριζων
Mark 11:20 And in the morning, as they passed by, they saw the fig tree dried up from the roots.
Mark 11:21 και αναμνησθεις ο πετρος λεγει αυτω ραββι ιδε η συκη ην κατηρασω εξηρανται
Mark 11:21 And Peter calling to remembrance saith unto him, Master, behold, the fig tree which thou cursedst is withered away.
Mark 11:22 και αποκριθεις ιησους λεγει αυτοις εχετε πιστιν θεου
Mark 11:22 And Jesus answering saith unto them, Have faith in God.
Mark 11:23 αμην γαρ λεγω υμιν οτι ος αν ειπη τω ορει τουτω αρθητι και βληθητι εις την θαλασσαν και μη διακριθη εν τη καρδια αυτου αλλα πιστευση οτι α λεγει γινεται εσται αυτω ο εαν ειπη
Mark 11:23 For verily I say unto you, That whosoever shall say unto this mountain, Be thou removed, and be thou cast into the sea; and shall not doubt in his heart, but shall believe that those things which he saith shall come to pass; he shall have whatsoever he saith.
Mark 11:24 δια τουτο λεγω υμιν παντα οσα αν προσευχομενοι αιτεισθε πιστευετε οτι λαμβανετε και εσται υμιν
Mark 11:24 Therefore I say unto you, What things soever ye desire, when ye pray, believe that ye receive them, and ye shall have them.
Mark 11:25 και οταν στηκητε προσευχομενοι αφιετε ει τι εχετε κατα τινος ινα και ο πατηρ υμων ο εν τοις ουρανοις αφη υμιν τα παραπτωματα υμων
Mark 11:25 And when ye stand praying, forgive, if ye have ought against any: that your Father also which is in heaven may forgive you your trespasses.
Mark 11:26 ει δε υμεις ουκ αφιετε ουδε ο πατηρ υμων ο εν τοις ουρανοις αφησει τα παραπτωματα υμων
Mark 11:26 But if ye do not forgive, neither will your Father which is in heaven forgive your trespasses.
Mark 11:27 και ερχονται παλιν εις ιεροσολυμα και εν τω ιερω περιπατουντος αυτου ερχονται προς αυτον οι αρχιερεις και οι γραμματεις και οι πρεσβυτεροι
Mark 11:27 And they come again to Jerusalem: and as he was walking in the temple, there come to him the chief priests, and the scribes, and the elders,
Mark 11:28 και λεγουσιν αυτω εν ποια εξουσια ταυτα ποιεις και τις σοι την εξουσιαν ταυτην εδωκεν ινα ταυτα ποιης
Mark 11:28 And say unto him, By what authority doest thou these things?  and who gave thee this authority to do these things?
Mark 11:29 ο δε ιησους αποκριθεις ειπεν αυτοις επερωτησω υμας καγω ενα λογον και αποκριθητε μοι και ερω υμιν εν ποια εξουσια ταυτα ποιω
Mark 11:29 And Jesus answered and said unto them, I will also ask of you one question, and answer me, and I will tell you by what authority I do these things.
Mark 11:30 το βαπτισμα ιωαννου εξ ουρανου ην η εξ ανθρωπων αποκριθητε μοι
Mark 11:30 The baptism of John, was it from heaven, or of men? answer me.
Mark 11:31 και ελογιζοντο προς εαυτους λεγοντες εαν ειπωμεν εξ ουρανου ερει διατι ουν ουκ επιστευσατε αυτω
Mark 11:31 And they reasoned with themselves, saying, If we shall say, From heaven; he will say, Why then did ye not believe him?
Mark 11:32 αλλ εαν ειπωμεν εξ ανθρωπων εφοβουντο τον λαον απαντες γαρ ειχον τον ιωαννην οτι οντως προφητης ην
Mark 11:32 But if we shall say, Of men; they feared the people: for all men counted John, that he was a prophet indeed.
Mark 11:33 και αποκριθεντες λεγουσιν τω ιησου ουκ οιδαμεν και ο ιησους αποκριθεις λεγει αυτοις ουδε εγω λεγω υμιν εν ποια εξουσια ταυτα ποιω
Mark 11:33 And they answered and said unto Jesus, We cannot tell. And Jesus answering saith unto them, Neither do I tell you by what authority I do these things.
Mark 12:1 και ηρξατο αυτοις εν παραβολαις λεγειν αμπελωνα εφυτευσεν ανθρωπος και περιεθηκεν φραγμον και ωρυξεν υποληνιον και ωκοδομησεν πυργον και εξεδοτο αυτον γεωργοις και απεδημησεν
Mark 12:1 And he began to speak unto them by parables. A certain man planted a vineyard, and set an hedge about it, and digged a place for the winefat, and built a tower, and let it out to husbandmen, and went into a far country.
Mark 12:2 και απεστειλεν προς τους γεωργους τω καιρω δουλον ινα παρα των γεωργων λαβη απο του καρπου του αμπελωνος
Mark 12:2 And at the season he sent to the husbandmen a servant, that he might receive from the husbandmen of the fruit of the vineyard.
Mark 12:3 οι δε λαβοντες αυτον εδειραν και απεστειλαν κενον
Mark 12:3 And they caught him, and beat him, and sent him away empty.
Mark 12:4 και παλιν απεστειλεν προς αυτους αλλον δουλον κακεινον λιθοβολησαντες εκεφαλαιωσαν και απεστειλαν ητιμωμενον
Mark 12:4 And again he sent unto them another servant; and at him they cast stones, and wounded him in the head, and sent him away shamefully handled.
Mark 12:5 και παλιν αλλον απεστειλεν κακεινον απεκτειναν και πολλους αλλους τους μεν δεροντες τους δε αποκτεινοντες
Mark 12:5 And again he sent another; and him they killed, and many others; beating some, and killing some.
Mark 12:6 ετι ουν ενα υιον εχων αγαπητον αυτου απεστειλεν και αυτον προς αυτους εσχατον λεγων οτι εντραπησονται τον υιον μου
Mark 12:6 Having yet therefore one son, his wellbeloved, he sent him also last unto them, saying, They will reverence my son.
Mark 12:7 εκεινοι δε οι γεωργοι ειπον προς εαυτους οτι ουτος εστιν ο κληρονομος δευτε αποκτεινωμεν αυτον και ημων εσται η κληρονομια
Mark 12:7 But those husbandmen said among themselves, This is the heir; come, let us kill him, and the inheritance shall be our's.
Mark 12:8 και λαβοντες αυτον απεκτειναν και εξεβαλον εξω του αμπελωνος
Mark 12:8 And they took him, and killed him, and cast him out of the vineyard.
Mark 12:9 τι ουν ποιησει ο κυριος του αμπελωνος ελευσεται και απολεσει τους γεωργους και δωσει τον αμπελωνα αλλοις
Mark 12:9 What shall therefore the lord of the vineyard do? he will come and destroy the husbandmen, and will give the vineyard unto others.
Mark 12:10 ουδε την γραφην ταυτην ανεγνωτε λιθον ον απεδοκιμασαν οι οικοδομουντες ουτος εγενηθη εις κεφαλην γωνιας
Mark 12:10 And have ye not read this scripture; The stone which the builders rejected is become the head of the corner:
Mark 12:11 παρα κυριου εγενετο αυτη και εστιν θαυμαστη εν οφθαλμοις ημων
Mark 12:11 This was the Lord's doing, and it is marvellous in our eyes?
Mark 12:12 και εζητουν αυτον κρατησαι και εφοβηθησαν τον οχλον εγνωσαν γαρ οτι προς αυτους την παραβολην ειπεν και αφεντες αυτον απηλθον
Mark 12:12 And they sought to lay hold on him, but feared the people: for they knew that he had spoken the parable against them: and they left him, and went their way.
Mark 12:13 και αποστελλουσιν προς αυτον τινας των φαρισαιων και των ηρωδιανων ινα αυτον αγρευσωσιν λογω
Mark 12:13 And they send unto him certain of the Pharisees and of the Herodians, to catch him in his words.
Mark 12:14 οι δε ελθοντες λεγουσιν αυτω διδασκαλε οιδαμεν οτι αληθης ει και ου μελει σοι περι ουδενος ου γαρ βλεπεις εις προσωπον ανθρωπων αλλ επ αληθειας την οδον του θεου διδασκεις εξεστιν κηνσον καισαρι δουναι η ου
Mark 12:14 And when they were come, they say unto him, Master, we know that thou art true, and carest for no man: for thou regardest not the person of men, but teachest the way of God in truth: Is it lawful to give tribute to Caesar, or not?
Mark 12:15 δωμεν η μη δωμεν ο δε ειδως αυτων την υποκρισιν ειπεν αυτοις τι με πειραζετε φερετε μοι δηναριον ινα ιδω
Mark 12:15 Shall we give, or shall we not give? But he, knowing their hypocrisy, said unto them, Why tempt ye me? bring me a penny, that I may see it.
Mark 12:16 οι δε ηνεγκαν και λεγει αυτοις τινος η εικων αυτη και η επιγραφη οι δε ειπον αυτω καισαρος
Mark 12:16 And they brought it. And he saith unto them, Whose is this image and superscription? And they said unto him, Caesar's.
Mark 12:17 και αποκριθεις ο ιησους ειπεν αυτοις αποδοτε τα καισαρος καισαρι και τα του θεου τω θεω και εθαυμασαν επ αυτω
Mark 12:17 And Jesus answering said unto them, Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's. And they marvelled at him.
Mark 12:18 και ερχονται σαδδουκαιοι προς αυτον οιτινες λεγουσιν αναστασιν μη ειναι και επηρωτησαν αυτον λεγοντες
Mark 12:18 Then come unto him the Sadducees, which say there is no resurrection; and they asked him, saying,
Mark 12:19 διδασκαλε μωσης εγραψεν ημιν οτι εαν τινος αδελφος αποθανη και καταλιπη γυναικα και τεκνα μη αφη ινα λαβη ο αδελφος αυτου την γυναικα αυτου και εξαναστηση σπερμα τω αδελφω αυτου
Mark 12:19 Master, Moses wrote unto us, If a man's brother die, and leave his wife behind him, and leave no children, that his brother should take his wife, and raise up seed unto his brother.
Mark 12:20 επτα αδελφοι ησαν και ο πρωτος ελαβεν γυναικα και αποθνησκων ουκ αφηκεν σπερμα
Mark 12:20 Now there were seven brethren: and the first took a wife, and dying left no seed.
Mark 12:21 και ο δευτερος ελαβεν αυτην και απεθανεν και ουδε αυτος αφηκεν σπερμα και ο τριτος ωσαυτως
Mark 12:21 And the second took her, and died, neither left he any seed: and the third likewise.
Mark 12:22 και ελαβον αυτην οι επτα και ουκ αφηκαν σπερμα εσχατη παντων απεθανεν και η γυνη
Mark 12:22 And the seven had her, and left no seed: last of all the woman died also.
Mark 12:23 εν τη ουν αναστασει οταν αναστωσιν τινος αυτων εσται γυνη οι γαρ επτα εσχον αυτην γυναικα
Mark 12:23 In the resurrection therefore, when they shall rise, whose wife shall she be of them? for the seven had her to wife.
Mark 12:24 και αποκριθεις ο ιησους ειπεν αυτοις ου δια τουτο πλανασθε μη ειδοτες τας γραφας μηδε την δυναμιν του θεου
Mark 12:24 And Jesus answering said unto them, Do ye not therefore err, because ye know not the scriptures, neither the power of God?
Mark 12:25 οταν γαρ εκ νεκρων αναστωσιν ουτε γαμουσιν ουτε γαμισκονται αλλ εισιν ως αγγελοι οι εν τοις ουρανοις
Mark 12:25 For when they shall rise from the dead, they neither marry, nor are given in marriage; but are as the angels which are in heaven.
Mark 12:26 περι δε των νεκρων οτι εγειρονται ουκ ανεγνωτε εν τη βιβλω μωσεως επι της βατου ως ειπεν αυτω ο θεος λεγων εγω ο θεος αβρααμ και ο θεος ισαακ και ο θεος ιακωβ
Mark 12:26 And as touching the dead, that they rise: have ye not read in the book of Moses, how in the bush God spake unto him, saying, I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob?
Mark 12:27 ουκ εστιν ο θεος νεκρων αλλα θεος ζωντων υμεις ουν πολυ πλανασθε
Mark 12:27 He is not the God of the dead, but the God of the living: ye therefore do greatly err.
Mark 12:28 και προσελθων εις των γραμματεων ακουσας αυτων συζητουντων ειδως οτι καλως αυτοις απεκριθη επηρωτησεν αυτον ποια εστιν πρωτη πασων εντολη
Mark 12:28 And one of the scribes came, and having heard them reasoning together, and perceiving that he had answered them well, asked him, Which is the first commandment of all?
Mark 12:29 ο δε ιησους απεκριθη αυτω οτι πρωτη πασων των εντολων ακουε ισραηλ κυριος ο θεος ημων κυριος εις εστιν
Mark 12:29 And Jesus answered him, The first of all the commandments is, Hear, O Israel; The Lord our God is one Lord:
Mark 12:30 και αγαπησεις κυριον τον θεον σου εξ ολης της καρδιας σου και εξ ολης της ψυχης σου και εξ ολης της διανοιας σου και εξ ολης της ισχυος σου αυτη πρωτη εντολη
Mark 12:30 And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind, and with all thy strength: this is the first commandment.
Mark 12:31 και δευτερα ομοια αυτη αγαπησεις τον πλησιον σου ως σεαυτον μειζων τουτων αλλη εντολη ουκ εστιν
Mark 12:31 And the second is like, namely this, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. There is none other commandment greater than these.
Mark 12:32 και ειπεν αυτω ο γραμματευς καλως διδασκαλε επ αληθειας ειπας οτι εις εστιν θεος και ουκ εστιν αλλος πλην αυτου
Mark 12:32 And the scribe said unto him, Well, Master, thou hast said the truth: for there is one God; and there is none other but he:
Mark 12:33 και το αγαπαν αυτον εξ ολης της καρδιας και εξ ολης της συνεσεως και εξ ολης της ψυχης και εξ ολης της ισχυος και το αγαπαν τον πλησιον ως εαυτον πλειον εστιν παντων των ολοκαυτωματων και των θυσιων
Mark 12:33 And to love him with all the heart, and with all the understanding, and with all the soul, and with all the strength, and to love his neighbour as himself, is more than all whole burnt offerings and sacrifices.
Mark 12:34 και ο ιησους ιδων αυτον οτι νουνεχως απεκριθη ειπεν αυτω ου μακραν ει απο της βασιλειας του θεου και ουδεις ουκετι ετολμα αυτον επερωτησαι
Mark 12:34 And when Jesus saw that he answered discreetly, he said unto him, Thou art not far from the kingdom of God. And no man after that durst ask him any question.
Mark 12:35 και αποκριθεις ο ιησους ελεγεν διδασκων εν τω ιερω πως λεγουσιν οι γραμματεις οτι ο χριστος υιος εστιν δαβιδ
Mark 12:35 And Jesus answered and said, while he taught in the temple, How say the scribes that Christ is the son of David?
Mark 12:36 αυτος γαρ δαβιδ ειπεν εν τω πνευματι τω αγιω ειπεν ο κυριος τω κυριω μου καθου εκ δεξιων μου εως αν θω τους εχθρους σου υποποδιον των ποδων σου
Mark 12:36 For David himself said by the Holy Ghost, The LORD said to my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand, till I make thine enemies thy footstool.
Mark 12:37 αυτος ουν δαβιδ λεγει αυτον κυριον και ποθεν υιος αυτου εστιν και ο πολυς οχλος ηκουεν αυτου ηδεως
Mark 12:37 David therefore himself calleth him Lord; and whence is he then his son? And the common people heard him gladly.
Mark 12:38 και ελεγεν αυτοις εν τη διδαχη αυτου βλεπετε απο των γραμματεων των θελοντων εν στολαις περιπατειν και ασπασμους εν ταις αγοραις
Mark 12:38 And he said unto them in his doctrine, Beware of the scribes, which love to go in long clothing, and love salutations in the marketplaces,
Mark 12:39 και πρωτοκαθεδριας εν ταις συναγωγαις και πρωτοκλισιας εν τοις δειπνοις
Mark 12:39 And the chief seats in the synagogues, and the uppermost rooms at feasts:
Mark 12:40 οι κατεσθιοντες τας οικιας των χηρων και προφασει μακρα προσευχομενοι ουτοι ληψονται περισσοτερον κριμα
Mark 12:40 Which devour widows' houses, and for a pretence make long prayers: these shall receive greater damnation.
Mark 12:41 και καθισας ο ιησους κατεναντι του γαζοφυλακιου εθεωρει πως ο οχλος βαλλει χαλκον εις το γαζοφυλακιον και πολλοι πλουσιοι εβαλλον πολλα
Mark 12:41 And Jesus sat over against the treasury, and beheld how the people cast money into the treasury: and many that were rich cast in much.
Mark 12:42 και ελθουσα μια χηρα πτωχη εβαλεν λεπτα δυο ο εστιν κοδραντης
Mark 12:42 And there came a certain poor widow, and she threw in two mites, which make a farthing.
Mark 12:43 και προσκαλεσαμενος τους μαθητας αυτου λεγει αυτοις αμην λεγω υμιν οτι η χηρα αυτη η πτωχη πλειον παντων βεβληκεν των βαλοντων εις το γαζοφυλακιον
Mark 12:43 And he called unto him his disciples, and saith unto them, Verily I say unto you, That this poor widow hath cast more in, than all they which have cast into the treasury:
Mark 12:44 παντες γαρ εκ του περισσευοντος αυτοις εβαλον αυτη δε εκ της υστερησεως αυτης παντα οσα ειχεν εβαλεν ολον τον βιον αυτης
Mark 12:44 For all they did cast in of their abundance; but she of her want did cast in all that she had, even all her living.
Mark 13:1 και εκπορευομενου αυτου εκ του ιερου λεγει αυτω εις των μαθητων αυτου διδασκαλε ιδε ποταποι λιθοι και ποταπαι οικοδομαι
Mark 13:1 And as he went out of the temple, one of his disciples saith unto him, Master, see what manner of stones and what buildings are here!
Mark 13:2 και ο ιησους αποκριθεις ειπεν αυτω βλεπεις ταυτας τας μεγαλας οικοδομας ου μη αφεθη λιθος επι λιθω ος ου μη καταλυθη
Mark 13:2 And Jesus answering said unto him, Seest thou these great buildings? there shall not be left one stone upon another, that shall not be thrown down.
Mark 13:3 και καθημενου αυτου εις το ορος των ελαιων κατεναντι του ιερου επηρωτων αυτον κατ ιδιαν πετρος και ιακωβος και ιωαννης και ανδρεας
Mark 13:3 And as he sat upon the mount of Olives over against the temple, Peter and James and John and Andrew asked him privately,
Mark 13:4 ειπε ημιν ποτε ταυτα εσται και τι το σημειον οταν μελλη παντα ταυτα συντελεισθαι
Mark 13:4 Tell us, when shall these things be? and what shall be the sign when all these things shall be fulfilled?
Mark 13:5 ο δε ιησους αποκριθεις αυτοις ηρξατο λεγειν βλεπετε μη τις υμας πλανηση
Mark 13:5 And Jesus answering them began to say, Take heed lest any man deceive you:
Mark 13:6 πολλοι γαρ ελευσονται επι τω ονοματι μου λεγοντες οτι εγω ειμι και πολλους πλανησουσιν
Mark 13:6 For many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ; and shall deceive many.
Mark 13:7 οταν δε ακουσητε πολεμους και ακοας πολεμων μη θροεισθε δει γαρ γενεσθαι αλλ ουπω το τελος
Mark 13:7 And when ye shall hear of wars and rumours of wars, be ye not troubled: for such things must needs be; but the end shall not be yet.
Mark 13:8 εγερθησεται γαρ εθνος επι εθνος και βασιλεια επι βασιλειαν και εσονται σεισμοι κατα τοπους και εσονται λιμοι και ταραχαι αρχαι ωδινων ταυτα
Mark 13:8 For nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom: and there shall be earthquakes in divers places, and there shall be famines and troubles: these are the beginnings of sorrows.
Mark 13:9 βλεπετε δε υμεις εαυτους παραδωσουσιν γαρ υμας εις συνεδρια και εις συναγωγας δαρησεσθε και επι ηγεμονων και βασιλεων σταθησεσθε ενεκεν εμου εις μαρτυριον αυτοις
Mark 13:9 But take heed to yourselves: for they shall deliver you up to councils; and in the synagogues ye shall be beaten: and ye shall be brought before rulers and kings for my sake, for a testimony against them.
Mark 13:10 και εις παντα τα εθνη δει πρωτον κηρυχθηναι το ευαγγελιον
Mark 13:10 And the gospel must first be published among all nations.
Mark 13:11 οταν δε αγαγωσιν υμας παραδιδοντες μη προμεριμνατε τι λαλησητε μηδε μελετατε αλλ ο εαν δοθη υμιν εν εκεινη τη ωρα τουτο λαλειτε ου γαρ εστε υμεις οι λαλουντες αλλα το πνευμα το αγιον
Mark 13:11 But when they shall lead you, and deliver you up, take no thought beforehand what ye shall speak, neither do ye premeditate: but whatsoever shall be given you in that hour, that speak ye: for it is not ye that speak, but the Holy Ghost.
Mark 13:12 παραδωσει δε αδελφος αδελφον εις θανατον και πατηρ τεκνον και επαναστησονται τεκνα επι γονεις και θανατωσουσιν αυτους
Mark 13:12 Now the brother shall betray the brother to death, and the father the son; and children shall rise up against their parents, and shall cause them to be put to death.
Mark 13:13 και εσεσθε μισουμενοι υπο παντων δια το ονομα μου ο δε υπομεινας εις τελος ουτος σωθησεται
Mark 13:13 And ye shall be hated of all men for my name's sake: but he that shall endure unto the end, the same shall be saved.
Mark 13:14 οταν δε ιδητε το βδελυγμα της ερημωσεως το ρηθεν υπο δανιηλ του προφητου εστος οπου ου δει ο αναγινωσκων νοειτω τοτε οι εν τη ιουδαια φευγετωσαν εις τα ορη
Mark 13:14 But when ye shall see the abomination of desolation, spoken of by Daniel the prophet, standing where it ought not, (let him that readeth understand,) then let them that be in Judaea flee to the mountains:
Mark 13:15 ο δε επι του δωματος μη καταβατω εις την οικιαν μηδε εισελθετω αραι τι εκ της οικιας αυτου
Mark 13:15 And let him that is on the housetop not go down into the house, neither enter therein, to take any thing out of his house:
Mark 13:16 και ο εις τον αγρον ων μη επιστρεψατω εις τα οπισω αραι το ιματιον αυτου
Mark 13:16 And let him that is in the field not turn back again for to take up his garment.
Mark 13:17 ουαι δε ταις εν γαστρι εχουσαις και ταις θηλαζουσαις εν εκειναις ταις ημεραις
Mark 13:17 But woe to them that are with child, and to them that give suck in those days!
Mark 13:18 προσευχεσθε δε ινα μη γενηται η φυγη υμων χειμωνος
Mark 13:18 And pray ye that your flight be not in the winter.
Mark 13:19 εσονται γαρ αι ημεραι εκειναι θλιψις οια ου γεγονεν τοιαυτη απ αρχης κτισεως ης εκτισεν ο θεος εως του νυν και ου μη γενηται
Mark 13:19 For in those days shall be affliction, such as was not from the beginning of the creation which God created unto this time, neither shall be.
Mark 13:20 και ει μη κυριος εκολοβωσεν τας ημερας ουκ αν εσωθη πασα σαρξ αλλα δια τους εκλεκτους ους εξελεξατο εκολοβωσεν τας ημερας
Mark 13:20 And except that the Lord had shortened those days, no flesh should be saved: but for the elect's sake, whom he hath chosen, he hath shortened the days.
Mark 13:21 και τοτε εαν τις υμιν ειπη ιδου ωδε ο χριστος η ιδου εκει μη πιστευσητε
Mark 13:21 And then if any man shall say to you, Lo, here is Christ; or, lo, he is there; believe him not:
Mark 13:22 εγερθησονται γαρ ψευδοχριστοι και ψευδοπροφηται και δωσουσιν σημεια και τερατα προς το αποπλαναν ει δυνατον και τους εκλεκτους
Mark 13:22 For false Christs and false prophets shall rise, and shall shew signs and wonders, to seduce, if it were possible, even the elect.
Mark 13:23 υμεις δε βλεπετε ιδου προειρηκα υμιν παντα
Mark 13:23 But take ye heed: behold, I have foretold you all things.
Mark 13:24 αλλ εν εκειναις ταις ημεραις μετα την θλιψιν εκεινην ο ηλιος σκοτισθησεται και η σεληνη ου δωσει το φεγγος αυτης
Mark 13:24 But in those days, after that tribulation, the sun shall be darkened, and the moon shall not give her light,
Mark 13:25 και οι αστερες του ουρανου εσονται εκπιπτοντες και αι δυναμεις αι εν τοις ουρανοις σαλευθησονται
Mark 13:25 And the stars of heaven shall fall, and the powers that are in heaven shall be shaken.
Mark 13:26 και τοτε οψονται τον υιον του ανθρωπου ερχομενον εν νεφελαις μετα δυναμεως πολλης και δοξης
Mark 13:26 And then shall they see the Son of man coming in the clouds with great power and glory.
Mark 13:27 και τοτε αποστελει τους αγγελους αυτου και επισυναξει τους εκλεκτους αυτου εκ των τεσσαρων ανεμων απ ακρου γης εως ακρου ουρανου
Mark 13:27 And then shall he send his angels, and shall gather together his elect from the four winds, from the uttermost part of the earth to the uttermost part of heaven.
Mark 13:28 απο δε της συκης μαθετε την παραβολην οταν αυτης ηδη ο κλαδος απαλος γενηται και εκφυη τα φυλλα γινωσκετε οτι εγγυς το θερος εστιν
Mark 13:28 Now learn a parable of the fig tree; When her branch is yet tender, and putteth forth leaves, ye know that summer is near:
Mark 13:29 ουτως και υμεις οταν ταυτα ιδητε γινομενα γινωσκετε οτι εγγυς εστιν επι θυραις
Mark 13:29 So ye in like manner, when ye shall see these things come to pass, know that it is nigh, even at the doors.
Mark 13:30 αμην λεγω υμιν οτι ου μη παρελθη η γενεα αυτη μεχρις ου παντα ταυτα γενηται
Mark 13:30 Verily I say unto you, that this generation shall not pass, till all these things be done.
Mark 13:31 ο ουρανος και η γη παρελευσονται οι δε λογοι μου ου μη παρελθωσιν
Mark 13:31 Heaven and earth shall pass away: but my words shall not pass away.
Mark 13:32 περι δε της ημερας εκεινης και της ωρας ουδεις οιδεν ουδε οι αγγελοι οι εν ουρανω ουδε ο υιος ει μη ο πατηρ
Mark 13:32 But of that day and that hour knoweth no man, no, not the angels which are in heaven, neither the Son, but the Father.
Mark 13:33 βλεπετε αγρυπνειτε και προσευχεσθε ουκ οιδατε γαρ ποτε ο καιρος εστιν
Mark 13:33 Take ye heed, watch and pray: for ye know not when the time is.
Mark 13:34 ως ανθρωπος αποδημος αφεις την οικιαν αυτου και δους τοις δουλοις αυτου την εξουσιαν και εκαστω το εργον αυτου και τω θυρωρω ενετειλατο ινα γρηγορη
Mark 13:34 For the Son of Man is as a man taking a far journey, who left his house, and gave authority to his servants, and to every man his work, and commanded the porter to watch.
Mark 13:35 γρηγορειτε ουν ουκ οιδατε γαρ ποτε ο κυριος της οικιας ερχεται οψε η μεσονυκτιου η αλεκτοροφωνιας η πρωι
Mark 13:35 Watch ye therefore: for ye know not when the master of the house cometh, at even, or at midnight, or at the cockcrowing, or in the morning:
Mark 13:36 μη ελθων εξαιφνης ευρη υμας καθευδοντας
Mark 13:36 Lest coming suddenly he find you sleeping.
Mark 13:37 α δε υμιν λεγω πασιν λεγω γρηγορειτε
Mark 13:37 And what I say unto you I say unto all, Watch.
Mark 14:1 ην δε το πασχα και τα αζυμα μετα δυο ημερας και εζητουν οι αρχιερεις και οι γραμματεις πως αυτον εν δολω κρατησαντες αποκτεινωσιν
Mark 14:1 After two days was the feast of the passover, and of unleavened bread: and the chief priests and the scribes sought how they might take him by craft, and put him to death.
Mark 14:2 ελεγον δε μη εν τη εορτη μηποτε θορυβος εσται του λαου
Mark 14:2 But they said, Not on the feast day, lest there be an uproar of the people.
Mark 14:3 και οντος αυτου εν βηθανια εν τη οικια σιμωνος του λεπρου κατακειμενου αυτου ηλθεν γυνη εχουσα αλαβαστρον μυρου ναρδου πιστικης πολυτελους και συντριψασα το αλαβαστρον κατεχεεν αυτου κατα της κεφαλης
Mark 14:3 And being in Bethany in the house of Simon the leper, as he sat at meat, there came a woman having an alabaster box of ointment of spikenard very precious; and she brake the box, and poured it on his head.
Mark 14:4 ησαν δε τινες αγανακτουντες προς εαυτους και λεγοντες εις τι η απωλεια αυτη του μυρου γεγονεν
Mark 14:4 And there were some that had indignation within themselves, and said, Why was this waste of the ointment made?
Mark 14:5 ηδυνατο γαρ τουτο πραθηναι επανω τριακοσιων δηναριων και δοθηναι τοις πτωχοις και ενεβριμωντο αυτη
Mark 14:5 For it might have been sold for more than three hundred pence, and have been given to the poor. And they murmured against her.
Mark 14:6 ο δε ιησους ειπεν αφετε αυτην τι αυτη κοπους παρεχετε καλον εργον ειργασατο εις εμε
Mark 14:6 And Jesus said, Let her alone; why trouble ye her? she hath wrought a good work on me.
Mark 14:7 παντοτε γαρ τους πτωχους εχετε μεθ εαυτων και οταν θελητε δυνασθε αυτους ευ ποιησαι εμε δε ου παντοτε εχετε
Mark 14:7 For ye have the poor with you always, and whensoever ye will ye may do them good: but me ye have not always.
Mark 14:8 ο ειχεν αυτη εποιησεν προελαβεν μυρισαι μου το σωμα εις τον ενταφιασμον
Mark 14:8 She hath done what she could: she is come aforehand to anoint my body to the burying.
Mark 14:9 αμην λεγω υμιν οπου αν κηρυχθη το ευαγγελιον τουτο εις ολον τον κοσμον και ο εποιησεν αυτη λαληθησεται εις μνημοσυνον αυτης
Mark 14:9 Verily I say unto you, Wheresoever this gospel shall be preached throughout the whole world, this also that she hath done shall be spoken of for a memorial of her.
Mark 14:10 και ο ιουδας ο ισκαριωτης εις των δωδεκα απηλθεν προς τους αρχιερεις ινα παραδω αυτον αυτοις
Mark 14:10 And Judas Iscariot, one of the twelve, went unto the chief priests, to betray him unto them.
Mark 14:11 οι δε ακουσαντες εχαρησαν και επηγγειλαντο αυτω αργυριον δουναι και εζητει πως ευκαιρως αυτον παραδω
Mark 14:11 And when they heard it, they were glad, and promised to give him money. And he sought how he might conveniently betray him.
Mark 14:12 και τη πρωτη ημερα των αζυμων οτε το πασχα εθυον λεγουσιν αυτω οι μαθηται αυτου που θελεις απελθοντες ετοιμασωμεν ινα φαγης το πασχα
Mark 14:12 And the first day of unleavened bread, when they killed the passover, his disciples said unto him, Where wilt thou that we go and prepare that thou mayest eat the passover?
Mark 14:13 και αποστελλει δυο των μαθητων αυτου και λεγει αυτοις υπαγετε εις την πολιν και απαντησει υμιν ανθρωπος κεραμιον υδατος βασταζων ακολουθησατε αυτω
Mark 14:13 And he sendeth forth two of his disciples, and saith unto them, Go ye into the city, and there shall meet you a man bearing a pitcher of water: follow him.
Mark 14:14 και οπου εαν εισελθη ειπατε τω οικοδεσποτη οτι ο διδασκαλος λεγει που εστιν το καταλυμα οπου το πασχα μετα των μαθητων μου φαγω
Mark 14:14 And wheresoever he shall go in, say ye to the goodman of the house, The Master saith, Where is the guestchamber, where I shall eat the passover with my disciples?
Mark 14:15 και αυτος υμιν δειξει ανωγεον μεγα εστρωμενον ετοιμον εκει ετοιμασατε ημιν
Mark 14:15 And he will shew you a large upper room furnished and prepared: there make ready for us.
Mark 14:16 και εξηλθον οι μαθηται αυτου και ηλθον εις την πολιν και ευρον καθως ειπεν αυτοις και ητοιμασαν το πασχα
Mark 14:16 And his disciples went forth, and came into the city, and found as he had said unto them: and they made ready the passover.
Mark 14:17 και οψιας γενομενης ερχεται μετα των δωδεκα
Mark 14:17 And in the evening he cometh with the twelve.
Mark 14:18 και ανακειμενων αυτων και εσθιοντων ειπεν ο ιησους αμην λεγω υμιν οτι εις εξ υμων παραδωσει με ο εσθιων μετ εμου
Mark 14:18 And as they sat and did eat, Jesus said, Verily I say unto you, One of you which eateth with me shall betray me.
Mark 14:19 οι δε ηρξαντο λυπεισθαι και λεγειν αυτω εις καθ εις μητι εγω και αλλος μητι εγω
Mark 14:19 And they began to be sorrowful, and to say unto him one by one, Is it I? and another said, Is it I?
Mark 14:20 ο δε αποκριθεις ειπεν αυτοις εις εκ των δωδεκα ο εμβαπτομενος μετ εμου εις το τρυβλιον
Mark 14:20 And he answered and said unto them, It is one of the twelve, that dippeth with me in the dish.
Mark 14:21 ο μεν υιος του ανθρωπου υπαγει καθως γεγραπται περι αυτου ουαι δε τω ανθρωπω εκεινω δι ου ο υιος του ανθρωπου παραδιδοται καλον ην αυτω ει ουκ εγεννηθη ο ανθρωπος εκεινος
Mark 14:21 The Son of man indeed goeth, as it is written of him: but woe to that man by whom the Son of man is betrayed! good were it for that man if he had never been born.
Mark 14:22 και εσθιοντων αυτων λαβων ο ιησους αρτον ευλογησας εκλασεν και εδωκεν αυτοις και ειπεν λαβετε φαγετε τουτο εστιν το σωμα μου
Mark 14:22 And as they did eat, Jesus took bread, and blessed, and brake it, and gave to them, and said, Take, eat: this is my body.
Mark 14:23 και λαβων το ποτηριον ευχαριστησας εδωκεν αυτοις και επιον εξ αυτου παντες
Mark 14:23 And he took the cup, and when he had given thanks, he gave it to them: and they all drank of it.
Mark 14:24 και ειπεν αυτοις τουτο εστιν το αιμα μου το της καινης διαθηκης το περι πολλων εκχυνομενον
Mark 14:24 And he said unto them, This is my blood of the new testament, which is shed for many.
Mark 14:25 αμην λεγω υμιν οτι ουκετι ου μη πιω εκ του γεννηματος της αμπελου εως της ημερας εκεινης οταν αυτο πινω καινον εν τη βασιλεια του θεου
Mark 14:25 Verily I say unto you, I will drink no more of the fruit of the vine, until that day that I drink it new in the kingdom of God.
Mark 14:26 και υμνησαντες εξηλθον εις το ορος των ελαιων
Mark 14:26 And when they had sung an hymn, they went out into the mount of Olives.
Mark 14:27 και λεγει αυτοις ο ιησους οτι παντες σκανδαλισθησεσθε εν εμοι εν τη νυκτι ταυτη οτι γεγραπται παταξω τον ποιμενα και διασκορπισθησεται τα προβατα
Mark 14:27 And Jesus saith unto them, All ye shall be offended because of me this night: for it is written, I will smite the shepherd, and the sheep shall be scattered.
Mark 14:28 αλλα μετα το εγερθηναι με προαξω υμας εις την γαλιλαιαν
Mark 14:28 But after that I am risen, I will go before you into Galilee.
Mark 14:29 ο δε πετρος εφη αυτω και ει παντες σκανδαλισθησονται αλλ ουκ εγω
Mark 14:29 But Peter said unto him, Although all shall be offended, yet will not I.
Mark 14:30 και λεγει αυτω ο ιησους αμην λεγω σοι οτι σημερον εν τη νυκτι ταυτη πριν η δις αλεκτορα φωνησαι τρις απαρνηση με
Mark 14:30 And Jesus saith unto him, Verily I say unto thee, That this day, even in this night, before the cock crow twice, thou shalt deny me thrice.
Mark 14:31 ο δε εκ περισσου ελεγεν μαλλον εαν με δεη συναποθανειν σοι ου μη σε απαρνησομαι ωσαυτως δε και παντες ελεγον
Mark 14:31 But he spake the more vehemently, If I should die with thee, I will not deny thee in any wise. Likewise also said they all.
Mark 14:32 και ερχονται εις χωριον ου το ονομα γεθσημανη και λεγει τοις μαθηταις αυτου καθισατε ωδε εως προσευξωμαι
Mark 14:32 And they came to a place which was named Gethsemane: and he saith to his disciples, Sit ye here, while I shall pray.
Mark 14:33 και παραλαμβανει τον πετρον και τον ιακωβον και ιωαννην μεθ εαυτου και ηρξατο εκθαμβεισθαι και αδημονειν
Mark 14:33 And he taketh with him Peter and James and John, and began to be sore amazed, and to be very heavy;
Mark 14:34 και λεγει αυτοις περιλυπος εστιν η ψυχη μου εως θανατου μεινατε ωδε και γρηγορειτε
Mark 14:34 And saith unto them, My soul is exceeding sorrowful unto death: tarry ye here, and watch.
Mark 14:35 και προελθων μικρον επεσεν επι της γης και προσηυχετο ινα ει δυνατον εστιν παρελθη απ αυτου η ωρα
Mark 14:35 And he went forward a little, and fell on the ground, and prayed that, if it were possible, the hour might pass from him.
Mark 14:36 και ελεγεν αββα ο πατηρ παντα δυνατα σοι παρενεγκε το ποτηριον απ εμου τουτο αλλ ου τι εγω θελω αλλα τι συ
Mark 14:36 And he said, Abba, Father, all things are possible unto thee; take away this cup from me: nevertheless not what I will, but what thou wilt.
Mark 14:37 και ερχεται και ευρισκει αυτους καθευδοντας και λεγει τω πετρω σιμων καθευδεις ουκ ισχυσας μιαν ωραν γρηγορησαι
Mark 14:37 And he cometh, and findeth them sleeping, and saith unto Peter, Simon, sleepest thou? couldest not thou watch one hour?
Mark 14:38 γρηγορειτε και προσευχεσθε ινα μη εισελθητε εις πειρασμον το μεν πνευμα προθυμον η δε σαρξ ασθενης
Mark 14:38 Watch ye and pray, lest ye enter into temptation. The spirit truly is ready, but the flesh is weak.
Mark 14:39 και παλιν απελθων προσηυξατο τον αυτον λογον ειπων
Mark 14:39 And again he went away, and prayed, and spake the same words.
Mark 14:40 και υποστρεψας ευρεν αυτους παλιν καθευδοντας ησαν γαρ οι οφθαλμοι αυτων βεβαρημενοι και ουκ ηδεισαν τι αυτω αποκριθωσιν
Mark 14:40 And when he returned, he found them asleep again, (for their eyes were heavy,) neither wist they what to answer him.
Mark 14:41 και ερχεται το τριτον και λεγει αυτοις καθευδετε το λοιπον και αναπαυεσθε απεχει ηλθεν η ωρα ιδου παραδιδοται ο υιος του ανθρωπου εις τας χειρας των αμαρτωλων
Mark 14:41 And he cometh the third time, and saith unto them, Sleep on now, and take your rest: it is enough, the hour is come; behold, the Son of man is betrayed into the hands of sinners.
Mark 14:42 εγειρεσθε αγωμεν ιδου ο παραδιδους με ηγγικεν
Mark 14:42 Rise up, let us go; lo, he that betrayeth me is at hand.
Mark 14:43 και ευθεως ετι αυτου λαλουντος παραγινεται ιουδας εις ων των δωδεκα και μετ αυτου οχλος πολυς μετα μαχαιρων και ξυλων παρα των αρχιερεων και των γραμματεων και των πρεσβυτερων
Mark 14:43 And immediately, while he yet spake, cometh Judas, one of the twelve, and with him a great multitude with swords and staves, from the chief priests and the scribes and the elders.
Mark 14:44 δεδωκει δε ο παραδιδους αυτον συσσημον αυτοις λεγων ον αν φιλησω αυτος εστιν κρατησατε αυτον και απαγαγετε ασφαλως
Mark 14:44 And he that betrayed him had given them a token, saying, Whomsoever I shall kiss, that same is he; take him, and lead him away safely.
Mark 14:45 και ελθων ευθεως προσελθων αυτω λεγει ραββι ραββι και κατεφιλησεν αυτον
Mark 14:45 And as soon as he was come, he goeth straightway to him, and saith, Master, master; and kissed him.
Mark 14:46 οι δε επεβαλον επ αυτον τας χειρας αυτων και εκρατησαν αυτον
Mark 14:46 And they laid their hands on him, and took him.
Mark 14:47 εις δε τις των παρεστηκοτων σπασαμενος την μαχαιραν επαισεν τον δουλον του αρχιερεως και αφειλεν αυτου το ωτιον
Mark 14:47 And one of them that stood by drew a sword, and smote a servant of the high priest, and cut off his ear.
Mark 14:48 και αποκριθεις ο ιησους ειπεν αυτοις ως επι ληστην εξηλθετε μετα μαχαιρων και ξυλων συλλαβειν με
Mark 14:48 And Jesus answered and said unto them, Are ye come out, as against a thief, with swords and with staves to take me?
Mark 14:49 καθ ημεραν ημην προς υμας εν τω ιερω διδασκων και ουκ εκρατησατε με αλλ ινα πληρωθωσιν αι γραφαι
Mark 14:49 I was daily with you in the temple teaching, and ye took me not: but the scriptures must be fulfilled.
Mark 14:50 και αφεντες αυτον παντες εφυγον
Mark 14:50 And they all forsook him, and fled.
Mark 14:51 και εις τις νεανισκος ηκολουθει αυτω περιβεβλημενος σινδονα επι γυμνου και κρατουσιν αυτον οι νεανισκοι
Mark 14:51 And there followed him a certain young man, having a linen cloth cast about his naked body; and the young men laid hold on him:
Mark 14:52 ο δε καταλιπων την σινδονα γυμνος εφυγεν απ αυτων
Mark 14:52 And he left the linen cloth, and fled from them naked.
Mark 14:53 και απηγαγον τον ιησουν προς τον αρχιερεα και συνερχονται αυτω παντες οι αρχιερεις και οι πρεσβυτεροι και οι γραμματεις
Mark 14:53 And they led Jesus away to the high priest: and with him were assembled all the chief priests and the elders and the scribes.
Mark 14:54 και ο πετρος απο μακροθεν ηκολουθησεν αυτω εως εσω εις την αυλην του αρχιερεως και ην συγκαθημενος μετα των υπηρετων και θερμαινομενος προς το φως
Mark 14:54 And Peter followed him afar off, even into the palace of the high priest: and he sat with the servants, and warmed himself at the fire.
Mark 14:55 οι δε αρχιερεις και ολον το συνεδριον εζητουν κατα του ιησου μαρτυριαν εις το θανατωσαι αυτον και ουχ ευρισκον
Mark 14:55 And the chief priests and all the council sought for witness against Jesus to put him to death; and found none.
Mark 14:56 πολλοι γαρ εψευδομαρτυρουν κατ αυτου και ισαι αι μαρτυριαι ουκ ησαν
Mark 14:56 For many bare false witness against him, but their witness agreed not together.
Mark 14:57 και τινες ανασταντες εψευδομαρτυρουν κατ αυτου λεγοντες
Mark 14:57 And there arose certain, and bare false witness against him, saying,
Mark 14:58 οτι ημεις ηκουσαμεν αυτου λεγοντος οτι εγω καταλυσω τον ναον τουτον τον χειροποιητον και δια τριων ημερων αλλον αχειροποιητον οικοδομησω
Mark 14:58 We heard him say, I will destroy this temple that is made with hands, and within three days I will build another made without hands.
Mark 14:59 και ουδε ουτως ιση ην η μαρτυρια αυτων
Mark 14:59 But neither so did their witness agree together.
Mark 14:60 και αναστας ο αρχιερευς εις το μεσον επηρωτησεν τον ιησουν λεγων ουκ αποκρινη ουδεν τι ουτοι σου καταμαρτυρουσιν
Mark 14:60 And the high priest stood up in the midst, and asked Jesus, saying, Answerest thou nothing? what is it which these witness against thee?
Mark 14:61 ο δε εσιωπα και ουδεν απεκρινατο παλιν ο αρχιερευς επηρωτα αυτον και λεγει αυτω συ ει ο χριστος ο υιος του ευλογητου
Mark 14:61 But he held his peace, and answered nothing. Again the high priest asked him, and said unto him, Art thou the Christ, the Son of the Blessed?
Mark 14:62 ο δε ιησους ειπεν εγω ειμι και οψεσθε τον υιον του ανθρωπου καθημενον εκ δεξιων της δυναμεως και ερχομενον μετα των νεφελων του ουρανου
Mark 14:62 And Jesus said, I am: and ye shall see the Son of man sitting on the right hand of power, and coming in the clouds of heaven.
Mark 14:63 ο δε αρχιερευς διαρρηξας τους χιτωνας αυτου λεγει τι ετι χρειαν εχομεν μαρτυρων
Mark 14:63 Then the high priest rent his clothes, and saith, What need we any further witnesses?
Mark 14:64 ηκουσατε της βλασφημιας τι υμιν φαινεται οι δε παντες κατεκριναν αυτον ειναι ενοχον θανατου
Mark 14:64 Ye have heard the blasphemy: what think ye? And they all condemned him to be guilty of death.
Mark 14:65 και ηρξαντο τινες εμπτυειν αυτω και περικαλυπτειν το προσωπον αυτου και κολαφιζειν αυτον και λεγειν αυτω προφητευσον και οι υπηρεται ραπισμασιν αυτον εβαλλον
Mark 14:65 And some began to spit on him, and to cover his face, and to buffet him, and to say unto him, Prophesy: and the servants did strike him with the palms of their hands.
Mark 14:66 και οντος του πετρου εν τη αυλη κατω ερχεται μια των παιδισκων του αρχιερεως
Mark 14:66 And as Peter was beneath in the palace, there cometh one of the maids of the high priest:
Mark 14:67 και ιδουσα τον πετρον θερμαινομενον εμβλεψασα αυτω λεγει και συ μετα του ναζαρηνου ιησου ησθα
Mark 14:67 And when she saw Peter warming himself, she looked upon him, and said, And thou also wast with Jesus of Nazareth.
Mark 14:68 ο δε ηρνησατο λεγων ουκ οιδα ουδε επισταμαι τι συ λεγεις και εξηλθεν εξω εις το προαυλιον και αλεκτωρ εφωνησεν
Mark 14:68 But he denied, saying, I know not, neither understand I what thou sayest. And he went out into the porch; and the cock crew.
Mark 14:69 και η παιδισκη ιδουσα αυτον παλιν ηρξατο λεγειν τοις παρεστηκοσιν οτι ουτος εξ αυτων εστιν
Mark 14:69 And a maid saw him again, and began to say to them that stood by, This is one of them.
Mark 14:70 ο δε παλιν ηρνειτο και μετα μικρον παλιν οι παρεστωτες ελεγον τω πετρω αληθως εξ αυτων ει και γαρ γαλιλαιος ει και η λαλια σου ομοιαζει
Mark 14:70 And he denied it again. And a little after, they that stood by said again to Peter, Surely thou art one of them: for thou art a Galilaean, and thy speech agreeth thereto.
Mark 14:71 ο δε ηρξατο αναθεματιζειν και ομνυειν οτι ουκ οιδα τον ανθρωπον τουτον ον λεγετε
Mark 14:71 But he began to curse and to swear, saying, I know not this man of whom ye speak.
Mark 14:72 και εκ δευτερου αλεκτωρ εφωνησεν και ανεμνησθη ο πετρος του ρηματος ου ειπεν αυτω ο ιησους οτι πριν αλεκτορα φωνησαι δις απαρνηση με τρις και επιβαλων εκλαιεν
Mark 14:72 And the second time the cock crew. And Peter called to mind the word that Jesus said unto him, Before the cock crow twice, thou shalt deny me thrice. And when he thought thereon, he wept.
Mark 15:1 και ευθεως επι το πρωι συμβουλιον ποιησαντες οι αρχιερεις μετα των πρεσβυτερων και γραμματεων και ολον το συνεδριον δησαντες τον ιησουν απηνεγκαν και παρεδωκαν τω πιλατω
Mark 15:1 And straightway in the morning the chief priests held a consultation with the elders and scribes and the whole council, and bound Jesus, and carried him away, and delivered him to Pilate.
Mark 15:2 και επηρωτησεν αυτον ο πιλατος συ ει ο βασιλευς των ιουδαιων ο δε αποκριθεις ειπεν αυτω συ λεγεις
Mark 15:2 And Pilate asked him, Art thou the King of the Jews? And he answering said unto them, Thou sayest it.
Mark 15:3 και κατηγορουν αυτου οι αρχιερεις πολλα
Mark 15:3 And the chief priests accused him of many things: but he answered nothing.
Mark 15:4 ο δε πιλατος παλιν επηρωτησεν αυτον λεγων ουκ αποκρινη ουδεν ιδε ποσα σου καταμαρτυρουσιν
Mark 15:4 And Pilate asked him again, saying, Answerest thou nothing?  behold how many things they witness against thee.
Mark 15:5 ο δε ιησους ουκετι ουδεν απεκριθη ωστε θαυμαζειν τον πιλατον
Mark 15:5 But Jesus yet answered nothing; so that Pilate marvelled.
Mark 15:6 κατα δε εορτην απελυεν αυτοις ενα δεσμιον ονπερ ητουντο
Mark 15:6 Now at that feast he released unto them one prisoner, whomsoever they desired.
Mark 15:7 ην δε ο λεγομενος βαραββας μετα των συστασιαστων δεδεμενος οιτινες εν τη στασει φονον πεποιηκεισαν
Mark 15:7 And there was one named Barabbas, which lay bound with them that had made insurrection with him, who had committed murder in the insurrection.
Mark 15:8 και αναβοησας ο οχλος ηρξατο αιτεισθαι καθως αει εποιει αυτοις
Mark 15:8 And the multitude crying aloud began to desire him to do as he had ever done unto them.
Mark 15:9 ο δε πιλατος απεκριθη αυτοις λεγων θελετε απολυσω υμιν τον βασιλεα των ιουδαιων
Mark 15:9 But Pilate answered them, saying, Will ye that I release unto you the King of the Jews?
Mark 15:10 εγινωσκεν γαρ οτι δια φθονον παραδεδωκεισαν αυτον οι αρχιερεις
Mark 15:10 For he knew that the chief priests had delivered him for envy.
Mark 15:11 οι δε αρχιερεις ανεσεισαν τον οχλον ινα μαλλον τον βαραββαν απολυση αυτοις
Mark 15:11 But the chief priests moved the people, that he should rather release Barabbas unto them.
Mark 15:12 ο δε πιλατος αποκριθεις παλιν ειπεν αυτοις τι ουν θελετε ποιησω ον λεγετε βασιλεα των ιουδαιων
Mark 15:12 And Pilate answered and said again unto them, What will ye then that I shall do unto him whom ye call the King of the Jews?
Mark 15:13 οι δε παλιν εκραξαν σταυρωσον αυτον
Mark 15:13 And they cried out again, Crucify him.
Mark 15:14 ο δε πιλατος ελεγεν αυτοις τι γαρ κακον εποιησεν οι δε περισσοτερως εκραξαν σταυρωσον αυτον
Mark 15:14 Then Pilate said unto them, Why, what evil hath he done? And they cried out the more exceedingly, Crucify him.
Mark 15:15 ο δε πιλατος βουλομενος τω οχλω το ικανον ποιησαι απελυσεν αυτοις τον βαραββαν και παρεδωκεν τον ιησουν φραγελλωσας ινα σταυρωθη
Mark 15:15 And so Pilate, willing to content the people, released Barabbas unto them, and delivered Jesus, when he had scourged him, to be crucified.
Mark 15:16 οι δε στρατιωται απηγαγον αυτον εσω της αυλης ο εστιν πραιτωριον και συγκαλουσιν ολην την σπειραν
Mark 15:16 And the soldiers led him away into the hall, called Praetorium; and they call together the whole band.
Mark 15:17 και ενδυουσιν αυτον πορφυραν και περιτιθεασιν αυτω πλεξαντες ακανθινον στεφανον
Mark 15:17 And they clothed him with purple, and platted a crown of thorns, and put it about his head,
Mark 15:18 και ηρξαντο ασπαζεσθαι αυτον χαιρε βασιλευ των ιουδαιων
Mark 15:18 And began to salute him, Hail, King of the Jews!
Mark 15:19 και ετυπτον αυτου την κεφαλην καλαμω και ενεπτυον αυτω και τιθεντες τα γονατα προσεκυνουν αυτω
Mark 15:19 And they smote him on the head with a reed, and did spit upon him, and bowing their knees worshipped him.
Mark 15:20 και οτε ενεπαιξαν αυτω εξεδυσαν αυτον την πορφυραν και ενεδυσαν αυτον τα ιματια τα ιδια και εξαγουσιν αυτον ινα σταυρωσωσιν αυτον
Mark 15:20 And when they had mocked him, they took off the purple from him, and put his own clothes on him, and led him out to crucify him.
Mark 15:21 και αγγαρευουσιν παραγοντα τινα σιμωνα κυρηναιον ερχομενον απ αγρου τον πατερα αλεξανδρου και ρουφου ινα αρη τον σταυρον αυτου
Mark 15:21 And they compel one Simon a Cyrenian, who passed by, coming out of the country, the father of Alexander and Rufus, to bear his cross.
Mark 15:22 και φερουσιν αυτον επι γολγοθα τοπον ο εστιν μεθερμηνευομενον κρανιου τοπος
Mark 15:22 And they bring him unto the place Golgotha, which is, being interpreted, The place of a skull.
Mark 15:23 και εδιδουν αυτω πιειν εσμυρνισμενον οινον ο δε ουκ ελαβεν
Mark 15:23 And they gave him to drink wine mingled with myrrh: but he received it not.
Mark 15:24 και σταυρωσαντες αυτον διεμεριζον τα ιματια αυτου βαλλοντες κληρον επ αυτα τις τι αρη
Mark 15:24 And when they had crucified him, they parted his garments, casting lots upon them, what every man should take.
Mark 15:25 ην δε ωρα τριτη και εσταυρωσαν αυτον
Mark 15:25 And it was the third hour, and they crucified him.
Mark 15:26 και ην η επιγραφη της αιτιας αυτου επιγεγραμμενη ο βασιλευς των ιουδαιων
Mark 15:26 And the superscription of his accusation was written over, THE KING OF THE JEWS.
Mark 15:27 και συν αυτω σταυρουσιν δυο ληστας ενα εκ δεξιων και ενα εξ ευωνυμων αυτου
Mark 15:27 And with him they crucify two thieves; the one on his right hand, and the other on his left.
Mark 15:28 και επληρωθη η γραφη η λεγουσα και μετα ανομων ελογισθη
Mark 15:28 And the scripture was fulfilled, which saith, And he was numbered with the transgressors.
Mark 15:29 και οι παραπορευομενοι εβλασφημουν αυτον κινουντες τας κεφαλας αυτων και λεγοντες ουα ο καταλυων τον ναον και εν τρισιν ημεραις οικοδομων
Mark 15:29 And they that passed by railed on him, wagging their heads, and saying, Ah, thou that destroyest the temple, and buildest it in three days,
Mark 15:30 σωσον σεαυτον και καταβα απο του σταυρου
Mark 15:30 Save thyself, and come down from the cross.
Mark 15:31 ομοιως δε και οι αρχιερεις εμπαιζοντες προς αλληλους μετα των γραμματεων ελεγον αλλους εσωσεν εαυτον ου δυναται σωσαι
Mark 15:31 Likewise also the chief priests mocking said among themselves with the scribes, He saved others; himself he cannot save.
Mark 15:32 ο χριστος ο βασιλευς του ισραηλ καταβατω νυν απο του σταυρου ινα ιδωμεν και πιστευσωμεν και οι συνεσταυρωμενοι αυτω ωνειδιζον αυτον
Mark 15:32 Let Christ the King of Israel descend now from the cross, that we may see and believe. And they that were crucified with him reviled him.
Mark 15:33 γενομενης δε ωρας εκτης σκοτος εγενετο εφ ολην την γην εως ωρας εννατης
Mark 15:33 And when the sixth hour was come, there was darkness over the whole land until the ninth hour.
Mark 15:34 και τη ωρα τη εννατη εβοησεν ο ιησους φωνη μεγαλη λεγων ελωι ελωι λαμμα σαβαχθανι ο εστιν μεθερμηνευομενον ο θεος μου ο θεος μου εις τι με εγκατελιπες
Mark 15:34 And at the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying, Eloi, Eloi, lama sabachthani? which is, being interpreted, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?
Mark 15:35 και τινες των παρεστηκοτων ακουσαντες ελεγον ιδου ηλιαν φωνει
Mark 15:35 And some of them that stood by, when they heard it, said, Behold, he calleth Elias.
Mark 15:36 δραμων δε εις και γεμισας σπογγον οξους περιθεις τε καλαμω εποτιζεν αυτον λεγων αφετε ιδωμεν ει ερχεται ηλιας καθελειν αυτον
Mark 15:36 And one ran and filled a spunge full of vinegar, and put it on a reed, and gave him to drink, saying, Let alone; let us see whether Elias will come to take him down.
Mark 15:37 ο δε ιησους αφεις φωνην μεγαλην εξεπνευσεν
Mark 15:37 And Jesus cried with a loud voice, and gave up the ghost.
Mark 15:38 και το καταπετασμα του ναου εσχισθη εις δυο απο ανωθεν εως κατω
Mark 15:38 And the veil of the temple was rent in twain from the top to the bottom.
Mark 15:39 ιδων δε ο κεντυριων ο παρεστηκως εξ εναντιας αυτου οτι ουτως κραξας εξεπνευσεν ειπεν αληθως ο ανθρωπος ουτος υιος ην θεου
Mark 15:39 And when the centurion, which stood over against him, saw that he so cried out, and gave up the ghost, he said, Truly this man was the Son of God.
Mark 15:40 ησαν δε και γυναικες απο μακροθεν θεωρουσαι εν αις ην και μαρια η μαγδαληνη και μαρια η του ιακωβου του μικρου και ιωση μητηρ και σαλωμη
Mark 15:40 There were also women looking on afar off: among whom was Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James the less and of Joses, and Salome;
Mark 15:41 αι και οτε ην εν τη γαλιλαια ηκολουθουν αυτω και διηκονουν αυτω και αλλαι πολλαι αι συναναβασαι αυτω εις ιεροσολυμα
Mark 15:41 (Who also, when he was in Galilee, followed him, and ministered unto him;) and many other women which came up with him unto Jerusalem.
Mark 15:42 και ηδη οψιας γενομενης επει ην παρασκευη ο εστιν προσαββατον
Mark 15:42 And now when the even was come, because it was the preparation, that is, the day before the sabbath,
Mark 15:43 ηλθεν ιωσηφ ο απο αριμαθαιας ευσχημων βουλευτης ος και αυτος ην προσδεχομενος την βασιλειαν του θεου τολμησας εισηλθεν προς πιλατον και ητησατο το σωμα του ιησου
Mark 15:43 Joseph of Arimathaea, an honourable counsellor, which also waited for the kingdom of God, came, and went in boldly unto Pilate, and craved the body of Jesus.
Mark 15:44 ο δε πιλατος εθαυμασεν ει ηδη τεθνηκεν και προσκαλεσαμενος τον κεντυριωνα επηρωτησεν αυτον ει παλαι απεθανεν
Mark 15:44 And Pilate marvelled if he were already dead: and calling unto him the centurion, he asked him whether he had been any while dead.
Mark 15:45 και γνους απο του κεντυριωνος εδωρησατο το σωμα τω ιωσηφ
Mark 15:45 And when he knew it of the centurion, he gave the body to Joseph.
Mark 15:46 και αγορασας σινδονα και καθελων αυτον ενειλησεν τη σινδονι και κατεθηκεν αυτον εν μνημειω ο ην λελατομημενον εκ πετρας και προσεκυλισεν λιθον επι την θυραν του μνημειου
Mark 15:46 And he bought fine linen, and took him down, and wrapped him in the linen, and laid him in a sepulchre which was hewn out of a rock, and rolled a stone unto the door of the sepulchre.
Mark 15:47 η δε μαρια η μαγδαληνη και μαρια ιωση εθεωρουν που τιθεται
Mark 15:47 And Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of Joses beheld where he was laid.
Mark 16:1 και διαγενομενου του σαββατου μαρια η μαγδαληνη και μαρια η του ιακωβου και σαλωμη ηγορασαν αρωματα ινα ελθουσαι αλειψωσιν αυτον
Mark 16:1 And when the sabbath was past, Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James, and Salome, had bought sweet spices, that they might come and anoint him.
Mark 16:2 και λιαν πρωι της μιας σαββατων ερχονται επι το μνημειον ανατειλαντος του ηλιου
Mark 16:2 And very early in the morning the first day of the week, they came unto the sepulchre at the rising of the sun.
Mark 16:3 και ελεγον προς εαυτας τις αποκυλισει ημιν τον λιθον εκ της θυρας του μνημειου
Mark 16:3 And they said among themselves, Who shall roll us away the stone from the door of the sepulchre?
Mark 16:4 και αναβλεψασαι θεωρουσιν οτι αποκεκυλισται ο λιθος ην γαρ μεγας σφοδρα
Mark 16:4 And when they looked, they saw that the stone was rolled away: for it was very great.
Mark 16:5 και εισελθουσαι εις το μνημειον ειδον νεανισκον καθημενον εν τοις δεξιοις περιβεβλημενον στολην λευκην και εξεθαμβηθησαν
Mark 16:5 And entering into the sepulchre, they saw a young man sitting on the right side, clothed in a long white garment; and they were affrighted.
Mark 16:6 ο δε λεγει αυταις μη εκθαμβεισθε ιησουν ζητειτε τον ναζαρηνον τον εσταυρωμενον ηγερθη ουκ εστιν ωδε ιδε ο τοπος οπου εθηκαν αυτον
Mark 16:6 And he saith unto them, Be not affrighted: Ye seek Jesus of Nazareth, which was crucified: he is risen; he is not here: behold the place where they laid him.
Mark 16:7 αλλ υπαγετε ειπατε τοις μαθηταις αυτου και τω πετρω οτι προαγει υμας εις την γαλιλαιαν εκει αυτον οψεσθε καθως ειπεν υμιν
Mark 16:7 But go your way, tell his disciples and Peter that he goeth before you into Galilee: there shall ye see him, as he said unto you.
Mark 16:8 και εξελθουσαι ταχυ εφυγον απο του μνημειου ειχεν δε αυτας τρομος και εκστασις και ουδενι ουδεν ειπον εφοβουντο γαρ
Mark 16:8 And they went out quickly, and fled from the sepulchre; for they trembled and were amazed: neither said they any thing to any man; for they were afraid.
Mark 16:9 αναστας δε πρωι πρωτη σαββατου εφανη πρωτον μαρια τη μαγδαληνη αφ ης εκβεβληκει επτα δαιμονια
Mark 16:9 Now when Jesus was risen early the first day of the week, he appeared first to Mary Magdalene, out of whom he had cast seven devils.
Mark 16:10 εκεινη πορευθεισα απηγγειλεν τοις μετ αυτου γενομενοις πενθουσιν και κλαιουσιν
Mark 16:10 And she went and told them that had been with him, as they mourned and wept.
Mark 16:11 κακεινοι ακουσαντες οτι ζη και εθεαθη υπ αυτης ηπιστησαν
Mark 16:11 And they, when they had heard that he was alive, and had been seen of her, believed not.
Mark 16:12 μετα δε ταυτα δυσιν εξ αυτων περιπατουσιν εφανερωθη εν ετερα μορφη πορευομενοις εις αγρον
Mark 16:12 After that he appeared in another form unto two of them, as they walked, and went into the country.
Mark 16:13 κακεινοι απελθοντες απηγγειλαν τοις λοιποις ουδε εκεινοις επιστευσαν
Mark 16:13 And they went and told it unto the residue: neither believed they them.
Mark 16:14 υστερον ανακειμενοις αυτοις τοις ενδεκα εφανερωθη και ωνειδισεν την απιστιαν αυτων και σκληροκαρδιαν οτι τοις θεασαμενοις αυτον εγηγερμενον ουκ επιστευσαν
Mark 16:14 Afterward he appeared unto the eleven as they sat at meat, and upbraided them with their unbelief and hardness of heart, because they believed not them which had seen him after he was risen.
Mark 16:15 και ειπεν αυτοις πορευθεντες εις τον κοσμον απαντα κηρυξατε το ευαγγελιον παση τη κτισει
Mark 16:15 And he said unto them, Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature.
Mark 16:16 ο πιστευσας και βαπτισθεις σωθησεται ο δε απιστησας κατακριθησεται
Mark 16:16 He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved; but he that believeth not shall be damned.
Mark 16:17 σημεια δε τοις πιστευσασιν ταυτα παρακολουθησει εν τω ονοματι μου δαιμονια εκβαλουσιν γλωσσαις λαλησουσιν καιναις
Mark 16:17 And these signs shall follow them that believe; In my name shall they cast out devils; they shall speak with new tongues;
Mark 16:18 οφεις αρουσιν καν θανασιμον τι πιωσιν ου μη αυτους βλαψει επι αρρωστους χειρας επιθησουσιν και καλως εξουσιν
Mark 16:18 They shall take up serpents; and if they drink any deadly thing, it shall not hurt them; they shall lay hands on the sick, and they shall recover.
Mark 16:19 ο μεν ουν κυριος μετα το λαλησαι αυτοις ανεληφθη εις τον ουρανον και εκαθισεν εκ δεξιων του θεου
Mark 16:19 So then after the Lord had spoken unto them, he was received up into heaven, and sat on the right hand of God.
Mark 16:20 εκεινοι δε εξελθοντες εκηρυξαν πανταχου του κυριου συνεργουντος και τον λογον βεβαιουντος δια των επακολουθουντων σημειων αμην
Mark 16:20 And they went forth, and preached every where, the Lord working with them, and confirming the word with signs following. Amen.
Luke 1:1 επειδηπερ πολλοι επεχειρησαν αναταξασθαι διηγησιν περι των πεπληροφορημενων εν ημιν πραγματων
Luke 1:1 Forasmuch as many have taken in hand to set forth in order a declaration of those things which are most surely believed among us,
Luke 1:2 καθως παρεδοσαν ημιν οι απ αρχης αυτοπται και υπηρεται γενομενοι του λογου
Luke 1:2 Even as they delivered them unto us, which from the beginning were eyewitnesses, and ministers of the word;
Luke 1:3 εδοξεν καμοι παρηκολουθηκοτι ανωθεν πασιν ακριβως καθεξης σοι γραψαι κρατιστε θεοφιλε
Luke 1:3 It seemed good to me also, having had perfect understanding of all things from the very first, to write unto thee in order, most excellent Theophilus,
Luke 1:4 ινα επιγνως περι ων κατηχηθης λογων την ασφαλειαν
Luke 1:4 That thou mightest know the certainty of those things, wherein thou hast been instructed.
Luke 1:5 εγενετο εν ταις ημεραις ηρωδου του βασιλεως της ιουδαιας ιερευς τις ονοματι ζαχαριας εξ εφημεριας αβια και η γυνη αυτου εκ των θυγατερων ααρων και το ονομα αυτης ελισαβετ
Luke 1:5 THERE was in the days of Herod, the king of Judaea, a certain priest named Zacharias, of the course of Abia: and his wife was of the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elisabeth.
Luke 1:6 ησαν δε δικαιοι αμφοτεροι ενωπιον του θεου πορευομενοι εν πασαις ταις εντολαις και δικαιωμασιν του κυριου αμεμπτοι
Luke 1:6 And they were both righteous before God, walking in all the commandments and ordinances of the Lord blameless.
Luke 1:7 και ουκ ην αυτοις τεκνον καθοτι η ελισαβετ ην στειρα και αμφοτεροι προβεβηκοτες εν ταις ημεραις αυτων ησαν
Luke 1:7 And they had no child, because that Elisabeth was barren, and they both were now well stricken in years.
Luke 1:8 εγενετο δε εν τω ιερατευειν αυτον εν τη ταξει της εφημεριας αυτου εναντι του θεου
Luke 1:8 And it came to pass, that while he executed the priest's office before God in the order of his course,
Luke 1:9 κατα το εθος της ιερατειας ελαχεν του θυμιασαι εισελθων εις τον ναον του κυριου
Luke 1:9 According to the custom of the priest's office, his lot was to burn incense when he went into the temple of the Lord.
Luke 1:10 και παν το πληθος του λαου ην προσευχομενον εξω τη ωρα του θυμιαματος
Luke 1:10 And the whole multitude of the people were praying without at the time of incense.
Luke 1:11 ωφθη δε αυτω αγγελος κυριου εστως εκ δεξιων του θυσιαστηριου του θυμιαματος
Luke 1:11 And there appeared unto him an angel of the Lord standing on the right side of the altar of incense.
Luke 1:12 και εταραχθη ζαχαριας ιδων και φοβος επεπεσεν επ αυτον
Luke 1:12 And when Zacharias saw him, he was troubled, and fear fell upon him.
Luke 1:13 ειπεν δε προς αυτον ο αγγελος μη φοβου ζαχαρια διοτι εισηκουσθη η δεησις σου και η γυνη σου ελισαβετ γεννησει υιον σοι και καλεσεις το ονομα αυτου ιωαννην
Luke 1:13 But the angel said unto him, Fear not, Zacharias: for thy prayer is heard; and thy wife Elisabeth shall bear thee a son, and thou shalt call his name John.
Luke 1:14 και εσται χαρα σοι και αγαλλιασις και πολλοι επι τη γεννησει αυτου χαρησονται
Luke 1:14 And thou shalt have joy and gladness; and many shall rejoice at his birth.
Luke 1:15 εσται γαρ μεγας ενωπιον του κυριου και οινον και σικερα ου μη πιη και πνευματος αγιου πλησθησεται ετι εκ κοιλιας μητρος αυτου
Luke 1:15 For he shall be great in the sight of the Lord, and shall drink neither wine nor strong drink; and he shall be filled with the Holy Ghost, even from his mother's womb.
Luke 1:16 και πολλους των υιων ισραηλ επιστρεψει επι κυριον τον θεον αυτων
Luke 1:16 And many of the children of Israel shall he turn to the Lord their God.
Luke 1:17 και αυτος προελευσεται ενωπιον αυτου εν πνευματι και δυναμει ηλιου επιστρεψαι καρδιας πατερων επι τεκνα και απειθεις εν φρονησει δικαιων ετοιμασαι κυριω λαον κατεσκευασμενον
Luke 1:17 And he shall go before him in the spirit and power of Elias, to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just; to make ready a people prepared for the Lord.
Luke 1:18 και ειπεν ζαχαριας προς τον αγγελον κατα τι γνωσομαι τουτο εγω γαρ ειμι πρεσβυτης και η γυνη μου προβεβηκυια εν ταις ημεραις αυτης
Luke 1:18 And Zacharias said unto the angel, Whereby shall I know this?  for I am an old man, and my wife well stricken in years.
Luke 1:19 και αποκριθεις ο αγγελος ειπεν αυτω εγω ειμι γαβριηλ ο παρεστηκως ενωπιον του θεου και απεσταλην λαλησαι προς σε και ευαγγελισασθαι σοι ταυτα
Luke 1:19 And the angel answering said unto him, I am Gabriel, that stand in the presence of God; and am sent to speak unto thee, and to shew thee these glad tidings.
Luke 1:20 και ιδου εση σιωπων και μη δυναμενος λαλησαι αχρι ης ημερας γενηται ταυτα ανθ ων ουκ επιστευσας τοις λογοις μου οιτινες πληρωθησονται εις τον καιρον αυτων
Luke 1:20 And, behold, thou shalt be dumb, and not able to speak, until the day that these things shall be performed, because thou believest not my words, which shall be fulfilled in their season.
Luke 1:21 και ην ο λαος προσδοκων τον ζαχαριαν και εθαυμαζον εν τω χρονιζειν αυτον εν τω ναω
Luke 1:21 And the people waited for Zacharias, and marvelled that he tarried so long in the temple.
Luke 1:22 εξελθων δε ουκ ηδυνατο λαλησαι αυτοις και επεγνωσαν οτι οπτασιαν εωρακεν εν τω ναω και αυτος ην διανευων αυτοις και διεμενεν κωφος
Luke 1:22 And when he came out, he could not speak unto them: and they perceived that he had seen a vision in the temple: for he beckoned unto them, and remained speechless.
Luke 1:23 και εγενετο ως επλησθησαν αι ημεραι της λειτουργιας αυτου απηλθεν εις τον οικον αυτου
Luke 1:23 And it came to pass, that, as soon as the days of his ministration were accomplished, he departed to his own house.
Luke 1:24 μετα δε ταυτας τας ημερας συνελαβεν ελισαβετ η γυνη αυτου και περιεκρυβεν εαυτην μηνας πεντε λεγουσα
Luke 1:24 And after those days his wife Elisabeth conceived, and hid herself five months, saying,
Luke 1:25 οτι ουτως μοι πεποιηκεν ο κυριος εν ημεραις αις επειδεν αφελειν το ονειδος μου εν ανθρωποις
Luke 1:25 Thus hath the Lord dealt with me in the days wherein he looked on me, to take away my reproach among men.
Luke 1:26 εν δε τω μηνι τω εκτω απεσταλη ο αγγελος γαβριηλ υπο του θεου εις πολιν της γαλιλαιας η ονομα ναζαρετ
Luke 1:26 And in the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sent from God unto a city of Galilee, named Nazareth,
Luke 1:27 προς παρθενον μεμνηστευμενην ανδρι ω ονομα ιωσηφ εξ οικου δαβιδ και το ονομα της παρθενου μαριαμ
Luke 1:27 To a virgin espoused to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of David; and the virgin's name was Mary.
Luke 1:28 και εισελθων ο αγγελος προς αυτην ειπεν χαιρε κεχαριτωμενη ο κυριος μετα σου ευλογημενη συ εν γυναιξιν
Luke 1:28 And the angel came in unto her, and said, Hail, thou that art highly favoured, the Lord is with thee: blessed art thou among women.
Luke 1:29 η δε ιδουσα διεταραχθη επι τω λογω αυτου και διελογιζετο ποταπος ειη ο ασπασμος ουτος
Luke 1:29 And when she saw him, she was troubled at his saying, and cast in her mind what manner of salutation this should be.
Luke 1:30 και ειπεν ο αγγελος αυτη μη φοβου μαριαμ ευρες γαρ χαριν παρα τω θεω
Luke 1:30 And the angel said unto her, Fear not, Mary: for thou hast found favour with God.
Luke 1:31 και ιδου συλληψη εν γαστρι και τεξη υιον και καλεσεις το ονομα αυτου ιησουν
Luke 1:31 And, behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb, and bring forth a son, and shalt call his name JESUS.
Luke 1:32 ουτος εσται μεγας και υιος υψιστου κληθησεται και δωσει αυτω κυριος ο θεος τον θρονον δαβιδ του πατρος αυτου
Luke 1:32 He shall be great, and shall be called the Son of the Highest: and the Lord God shall give unto him the throne of his father David:
Luke 1:33 και βασιλευσει επι τον οικον ιακωβ εις τους αιωνας και της βασιλειας αυτου ουκ εσται τελος
Luke 1:33 And he shall reign over the house of Jacob for ever; and of his kingdom there shall be no end.
Luke 1:34 ειπεν δε μαριαμ προς τον αγγελον πως εσται τουτο επει ανδρα ου γινωσκω
Luke 1:34 Then said Mary unto the angel, How shall this be, seeing I know not a man?
Luke 1:35 και αποκριθεις ο αγγελος ειπεν αυτη πνευμα αγιον επελευσεται επι σε και δυναμις υψιστου επισκιασει σοι διο και το γεννωμενον αγιον κληθησεται υιος θεου
Luke 1:35 And the angel answered and said unto her, The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee, and the power of the Highest shall overshadow thee: therefore also that holy thing which shall be born of thee shall be called the Son of God.
Luke 1:36 και ιδου ελισαβετ η συγγενης σου και αυτη συνειληφυια υιον εν γηρα αυτης και ουτος μην εκτος εστιν αυτη τη καλουμενη στειρα
Luke 1:36 And, behold, thy cousin Elisabeth, she hath also conceived a son in her old age: and this is the sixth month with her, who was called barren.
Luke 1:37 οτι ουκ αδυνατησει παρα τω θεω παν ρημα
Luke 1:37 For with God nothing shall be impossible.
Luke 1:38 ειπεν δε μαριαμ ιδου η δουλη κυριου γενοιτο μοι κατα το ρημα σου και απηλθεν απ αυτης ο αγγελος
Luke 1:38 And Mary said, Behold the handmaid of the Lord; be it unto me according to thy word. And the angel departed from her.
Luke 1:39 αναστασα δε μαριαμ εν ταις ημεραις ταυταις επορευθη εις την ορεινην μετα σπουδης εις πολιν ιουδα
Luke 1:39 And Mary arose in those days, and went into the hill country with haste, into a city of Juda;
Luke 1:40 και εισηλθεν εις τον οικον ζαχαριου και ησπασατο την ελισαβετ
Luke 1:40 And entered into the house of Zacharias, and saluted Elisabeth.
Luke 1:41 και εγενετο ως ηκουσεν η ελισαβετ τον ασπασμον της μαριας εσκιρτησεν το βρεφος εν τη κοιλια αυτης και επλησθη πνευματος αγιου η ελισαβετ
Luke 1:41 And it came to pass, that, when Elisabeth heard the salutation of Mary, the babe leaped in her womb; and Elisabeth was filled with the Holy Ghost:
Luke 1:42 και ανεφωνησεν φωνη μεγαλη και ειπεν ευλογημενη συ εν γυναιξιν και ευλογημενος ο καρπος της κοιλιας σου
Luke 1:42 And she spake out with a loud voice, and said, Blessed art thou among women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb.
Luke 1:43 και ποθεν μοι τουτο ινα ελθη η μητηρ του κυριου μου προς με
Luke 1:43 And whence is this to me, that the mother of my Lord should come to me?
Luke 1:44 ιδου γαρ ως εγενετο η φωνη του ασπασμου σου εις τα ωτα μου εσκιρτησεν εν αγαλλιασει το βρεφος εν τη κοιλια μου
Luke 1:44 For, lo, as soon as the voice of thy salutation sounded in mine ears, the babe leaped in my womb for joy.
Luke 1:45 και μακαρια η πιστευσασα οτι εσται τελειωσις τοις λελαλημενοις αυτη παρα κυριου
Luke 1:45 And blessed is she that believed: for there shall be a performance of those things which were told her from the Lord.
Luke 1:46 και ειπεν μαριαμ μεγαλυνει η ψυχη μου τον κυριον
Luke 1:46 And Mary said, My soul doth magnify the Lord,
Luke 1:47 και ηγαλλιασεν το πνευμα μου επι τω θεω τω σωτηρι μου
Luke 1:47 And my spirit hath rejoiced in God my Saviour.
Luke 1:48 οτι επεβλεψεν επι την ταπεινωσιν της δουλης αυτου ιδου γαρ απο του νυν μακαριουσιν με πασαι αι γενεαι
Luke 1:48 For he hath regarded the low estate of his handmaiden: for, behold, from henceforth all generations shall call me blessed.
Luke 1:49 οτι εποιησεν μοι μεγαλεια ο δυνατος και αγιον το ονομα αυτου
Luke 1:49 For he that is mighty hath done to me great things; and holy is his name.
Luke 1:50 και το ελεος αυτου εις γενεας γενεων τοις φοβουμενοις αυτον
Luke 1:50 And his mercy is on them that fear him from generation to generation.
Luke 1:51 εποιησεν κρατος εν βραχιονι αυτου διεσκορπισεν υπερηφανους διανοια καρδιας αυτων
Luke 1:51 He hath shewed strength with his arm; he hath scattered the proud in the imagination of their hearts.
Luke 1:52 καθειλεν δυναστας απο θρονων και υψωσεν ταπεινους
Luke 1:52 He hath put down the mighty from their seats, and exalted them of low degree.
Luke 1:53 πεινωντας ενεπλησεν αγαθων και πλουτουντας εξαπεστειλεν κενους
Luke 1:53 He hath filled the hungry with good things; and the rich he hath sent empty away.
Luke 1:54 αντελαβετο ισραηλ παιδος αυτου μνησθηναι ελεους
Luke 1:54 He hath holpen his servant Israel, in remembrance of his mercy;
Luke 1:55 καθως ελαλησεν προς τους πατερας ημων τω αβρααμ και τω σπερματι αυτου εις τον αιωνα
Luke 1:55 As he spake to our fathers, to Abraham, and to his seed for ever.
Luke 1:56 εμεινεν δε μαριαμ συν αυτη ωσει μηνας τρεις και υπεστρεψεν εις τον οικον αυτης
Luke 1:56 And Mary abode with her about three months, and returned to her own house.
Luke 1:57 τη δε ελισαβετ επλησθη ο χρονος του τεκειν αυτην και εγεννησεν υιον
Luke 1:57 Now Elisabeth's full time came that she should be delivered; and she brought forth a son.
Luke 1:58 και ηκουσαν οι περιοικοι και οι συγγενεις αυτης οτι εμεγαλυνεν κυριος το ελεος αυτου μετ αυτης και συνεχαιρον αυτη
Luke 1:58 And her neighbours and her cousins heard how the Lord had shewed great mercy upon her; and they rejoiced with her.
Luke 1:59 και εγενετο εν τη ογδοη ημερα ηλθον περιτεμειν το παιδιον και εκαλουν αυτο επι τω ονοματι του πατρος αυτου ζαχαριαν
Luke 1:59 And it came to pass, that on the eighth day they came to circumcise the child; and they called him Zacharias, after the name of his father.
Luke 1:60 και αποκριθεισα η μητηρ αυτου ειπεν ουχι αλλα κληθησεται ιωαννης
Luke 1:60 And his mother answered and said, Not so; but he shall be called John.
Luke 1:61 και ειπον προς αυτην οτι ουδεις εστιν εν τη συγγενεια σου ος καλειται τω ονοματι τουτω
Luke 1:61 And they said unto her, There is none of thy kindred that is called by this name.
Luke 1:62 ενενευον δε τω πατρι αυτου το τι αν θελοι καλεισθαι αυτον
Luke 1:62 And they made signs to his father, how he would have him called.
Luke 1:63 και αιτησας πινακιδιον εγραψεν λεγων ιωαννης εστιν το ονομα αυτου και εθαυμασαν παντες
Luke 1:63 And he asked for a writing table, and wrote, saying, His name is John. And they marvelled all.
Luke 1:64 ανεωχθη δε το στομα αυτου παραχρημα και η γλωσσα αυτου και ελαλει ευλογων τον θεον
Luke 1:64 And his mouth was opened immediately, and his tongue loosed, and he spake, and praised God.
Luke 1:65 και εγενετο επι παντας φοβος τους περιοικουντας αυτους και εν ολη τη ορεινη της ιουδαιας διελαλειτο παντα τα ρηματα ταυτα
Luke 1:65 And fear came on all that dwelt round about them: and all these sayings were noised abroad throughout all the hill country of Judaea.
Luke 1:66 και εθεντο παντες οι ακουσαντες εν τη καρδια αυτων λεγοντες τι αρα το παιδιον τουτο εσται και χειρ κυριου ην μετ αυτου
Luke 1:66 And all they that heard them laid them up in their hearts, saying, What manner of child shall this be! And the hand of the Lord was with him.
Luke 1:67 και ζαχαριας ο πατηρ αυτου επλησθη πνευματος αγιου και προεφητευσεν λεγων
Luke 1:67 And his father Zacharias was filled with the Holy Ghost, and prophesied, saying,
Luke 1:68 ευλογητος κυριος ο θεος του ισραηλ οτι επεσκεψατο και εποιησεν λυτρωσιν τω λαω αυτου
Luke 1:68 Blessed be the Lord God of Israel; for he hath visited and redeemed his people,
Luke 1:69 και ηγειρεν κερας σωτηριας ημιν εν τω οικω δαβιδ του παιδος αυτου
Luke 1:69 And hath raised up an horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David;
Luke 1:70 καθως ελαλησεν δια στοματος των αγιων των απ αιωνος προφητων αυτου
Luke 1:70 As he spake by the mouth of his holy prophets, which have been since the world began:
Luke 1:71 σωτηριαν εξ εχθρων ημων και εκ χειρος παντων των μισουντων ημας
Luke 1:71 That we should be saved from our enemies, and from the hand of all that hate us;
Luke 1:72 ποιησαι ελεος μετα των πατερων ημων και μνησθηναι διαθηκης αγιας αυτου
Luke 1:72 To perform the mercy promised to our fathers, and to remember his holy covenant;
Luke 1:73 ορκον ον ωμοσεν προς αβρααμ τον πατερα ημων του δουναι ημιν
Luke 1:73 The oath which he sware to our father Abraham,
Luke 1:74 αφοβως εκ χειρος των εχθρων ημων ρυσθεντας λατρευειν αυτω
Luke 1:74 That he would grant unto us, that we being delivered out of the hand of our enemies might serve him without fear,
Luke 1:75 εν οσιοτητι και δικαιοσυνη ενωπιον αυτου πασας τας ημερας της ζωης ημων
Luke 1:75 In holiness and righteousness before him, all the days of our life.
Luke 1:76 και συ παιδιον προφητης υψιστου κληθηση προπορευση γαρ προ προσωπου κυριου ετοιμασαι οδους αυτου
Luke 1:76 And thou, child, shalt be called the prophet of the Highest: for thou shalt go before the face of the Lord to prepare his ways;
Luke 1:77 του δουναι γνωσιν σωτηριας τω λαω αυτου εν αφεσει αμαρτιων αυτων
Luke 1:77 To give knowledge of salvation unto his people by the remission of their sins,
Luke 1:78 δια σπλαγχνα ελεους θεου ημων εν οις επεσκεψατο ημας ανατολη εξ υψους
Luke 1:78 Through the tender mercy of our God; whereby the dayspring from on high hath visited us,
Luke 1:79 επιφαναι τοις εν σκοτει και σκια θανατου καθημενοις του κατευθυναι τους ποδας ημων εις οδον ειρηνης
Luke 1:79 To give light to them that sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, to guide our feet into the way of peace.
Luke 1:80 το δε παιδιον ηυξανεν και εκραταιουτο πνευματι και ην εν ταις ερημοις εως ημερας αναδειξεως αυτου προς τον ισραηλ
Luke 1:80 And the child grew, and waxed strong in spirit, and was in the deserts till the day of his shewing unto Israel.
Luke 2:1 εγενετο δε εν ταις ημεραις εκειναις εξηλθεν δογμα παρα καισαρος αυγουστου απογραφεσθαι πασαν την οικουμενην
Luke 2:1 And it came to pass in those days, that there went out a decree from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be taxed.
Luke 2:2 αυτη η απογραφη πρωτη εγενετο ηγεμονευοντος της συριας κυρηνιου
Luke 2:2 (And this taxing was first made when Cyrenius was governor of Syria.)
Luke 2:3 και επορευοντο παντες απογραφεσθαι εκαστος εις την ιδιαν πολιν
Luke 2:3 And all went to be taxed, every one into his own city.
Luke 2:4 ανεβη δε και ιωσηφ απο της γαλιλαιας εκ πολεως ναζαρετ εις την ιουδαιαν εις πολιν δαβιδ ητις καλειται βηθλεεμ δια το ειναι αυτον εξ οικου και πατριας δαβιδ
Luke 2:4 And Joseph also went up from Galilee, out of the city of Nazareth, into Judaea, unto the city of David, which is called Bethlehem; (because he was of the house and lineage of David:)
Luke 2:5 απογραψασθαι συν μαριαμ τη μεμνηστευμενη αυτω γυναικι ουση εγκυω
Luke 2:5 To be taxed with Mary his espoused wife, being great with child.
Luke 2:6 εγενετο δε εν τω ειναι αυτους εκει επλησθησαν αι ημεραι του τεκειν αυτην
Luke 2:6 And so it was, that, while they were there, the days were accomplished that she should be delivered.
Luke 2:7 και ετεκεν τον υιον αυτης τον πρωτοτοκον και εσπαργανωσεν αυτον και ανεκλινεν αυτον εν τη φατνη διοτι ουκ ην αυτοις τοπος εν τω καταλυματι
Luke 2:7 And she brought forth her firstborn son, and wrapped him in swaddling clothes, and laid him in a manger; because there was no room for them in the inn.
Luke 2:8 και ποιμενες ησαν εν τη χωρα τη αυτη αγραυλουντες και φυλασσοντες φυλακας της νυκτος επι την ποιμνην αυτων
Luke 2:8 And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night.
Luke 2:9 και ιδου αγγελος κυριου επεστη αυτοις και δοξα κυριου περιελαμψεν αυτους και εφοβηθησαν φοβον μεγαν
Luke 2:9 And, lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them: and they were sore afraid.
Luke 2:10 και ειπεν αυτοις ο αγγελος μη φοβεισθε ιδου γαρ ευαγγελιζομαι υμιν χαραν μεγαλην ητις εσται παντι τω λαω
Luke 2:10 And the angel said unto them, Fear not: for, behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people.
Luke 2:11 οτι ετεχθη υμιν σημερον σωτηρ ος εστιν χριστος κυριος εν πολει δαβιδ
Luke 2:11 For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Saviour, which is Christ the Lord.
Luke 2:12 και τουτο υμιν το σημειον ευρησετε βρεφος εσπαργανωμενον κειμενον εν τη φατνη
Luke 2:12 And this shall be a sign unto you; Ye shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger.
Luke 2:13 και εξαιφνης εγενετο συν τω αγγελω πληθος στρατιας ουρανιου αινουντων τον θεον και λεγοντων
Luke 2:13 And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God, and saying,
Luke 2:14 δοξα εν υψιστοις θεω και επι γης ειρηνη εν ανθρωποις ευδοκια
Luke 2:14 Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men.
Luke 2:15 και εγενετο ως απηλθον απ αυτων εις τον ουρανον οι αγγελοι και οι ανθρωποι οι ποιμενες ειπον προς αλληλους διελθωμεν δη εως βηθλεεμ και ιδωμεν το ρημα τουτο το γεγονος ο ο κυριος εγνωρισεν ημιν
Luke 2:15 And it came to pass, as the angels were gone away from them into heaven, the shepherds said one to another, Let us now go even unto Bethlehem, and see this thing which is come to pass, which the Lord hath made known unto us.
Luke 2:16 και ηλθον σπευσαντες και ανευρον την τε μαριαμ και τον ιωσηφ και το βρεφος κειμενον εν τη φατνη
Luke 2:16 And they came with haste, and found Mary, and Joseph, and the babe lying in a manger.
Luke 2:17 ιδοντες δε διεγνωρισαν περι του ρηματος του λαληθεντος αυτοις περι του παιδιου τουτου
Luke 2:17 And when they had seen it, they made known abroad the saying which was told them concerning this child.
Luke 2:18 και παντες οι ακουσαντες εθαυμασαν περι των λαληθεντων υπο των ποιμενων προς αυτους
Luke 2:18 And all they that heard it wondered at those things which were told them by the shepherds.
Luke 2:19 η δε μαριαμ παντα συνετηρει τα ρηματα ταυτα συμβαλλουσα εν τη καρδια αυτης
Luke 2:19 But Mary kept all these things, and pondered them in her heart.
Luke 2:20 και επεστρεψαν οι ποιμενες δοξαζοντες και αινουντες τον θεον επι πασιν οις ηκουσαν και ειδον καθως ελαληθη προς αυτους
Luke 2:20 And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things that they had heard and seen, as it was told unto them.
Luke 2:21 και οτε επλησθησαν ημεραι οκτω του περιτεμειν το παιδιον και εκληθη το ονομα αυτου ιησους το κληθεν υπο του αγγελου προ του συλληφθηναι αυτον εν τη κοιλια
Luke 2:21 And when eight days were accomplished for the circumcising of the child, his name was called JESUS, which was so named of the angel before he was conceived in the womb.
Luke 2:22 και οτε επλησθησαν αι ημεραι του καθαρισμου αυτων κατα τον νομον μωσεως ανηγαγον αυτον εις ιεροσολυμα παραστησαι τω κυριω
Luke 2:22 And when the days of her purification according to the law of Moses were accomplished, they brought him to Jerusalem, to present him to the Lord;
Luke 2:23 καθως γεγραπται εν νομω κυριου οτι παν αρσεν διανοιγον μητραν αγιον τω κυριω κληθησεται
Luke 2:23 (As it is written in the law of the LORD, Every male that openeth the womb shall be called holy to the Lord;)
Luke 2:24 και του δουναι θυσιαν κατα το ειρημενον εν νομω κυριου ζευγος τρυγονων η δυο νεοσσους περιστερων
Luke 2:24 And to offer a sacrifice according to that which is said in the law of the Lord, A pair of turtledoves, or two young pigeons.
Luke 2:25 και ιδου ην ανθρωπος εν ιερουσαλημ ω ονομα συμεων και ο ανθρωπος ουτος δικαιος και ευλαβης προσδεχομενος παρακλησιν του ισραηλ και πνευμα αγιον ην επ αυτον
Luke 2:25 And, behold, there was a man in Jerusalem, whose name was Simeon; and the same man was just and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel: and the Holy Ghost was upon him.
Luke 2:26 και ην αυτω κεχρηματισμενον υπο του πνευματος του αγιου μη ιδειν θανατον πριν η ιδη τον χριστον κυριου
Luke 2:26 And it was revealed unto him by the Holy Ghost, that he should not see death, before he had seen the Lord's Christ.
Luke 2:27 και ηλθεν εν τω πνευματι εις το ιερον και εν τω εισαγαγειν τους γονεις το παιδιον ιησουν του ποιησαι αυτους κατα το ειθισμενον του νομου περι αυτου
Luke 2:27 And he came by the Spirit into the temple: and when the parents brought in the child Jesus, to do for him after the custom of the law,
Luke 2:28 και αυτος εδεξατο αυτο εις τας αγκαλας αυτου και ευλογησεν τον θεον και ειπεν
Luke 2:28 Then took he him up in his arms, and blessed God, and said,
Luke 2:29 νυν απολυεις τον δουλον σου δεσποτα κατα το ρημα σου εν ειρηνη
Luke 2:29 Lord, now lettest thou thy servant depart in peace, according to thy word:
Luke 2:30 οτι ειδον οι οφθαλμοι μου το σωτηριον σου
Luke 2:30 For mine eyes have seen thy salvation,
Luke 2:31 ο ητοιμασας κατα προσωπον παντων των λαων
Luke 2:31 Which thou hast prepared before the face of all people;
Luke 2:32 φως εις αποκαλυψιν εθνων και δοξαν λαου σου ισραηλ
Luke 2:32 A light to lighten the Gentiles, and the glory of thy people Israel.
Luke 2:33 και ην ιωσηφ και η μητηρ αυτου θαυμαζοντες επι τοις λαλουμενοις περι αυτου
Luke 2:33 And Joseph and his mother marvelled at those things which were spoken of him.
Luke 2:34 και ευλογησεν αυτους συμεων και ειπεν προς μαριαμ την μητερα αυτου ιδου ουτος κειται εις πτωσιν και αναστασιν πολλων εν τω ισραηλ και εις σημειον αντιλεγομενον
Luke 2:34 And Simeon blessed them, and said unto Mary his mother, Behold, this child is set for the fall and rising again of many in Israel; and for a sign which shall be spoken against;
Luke 2:35 και σου δε αυτης την ψυχην διελευσεται ρομφαια οπως αν αποκαλυφθωσιν εκ πολλων καρδιων διαλογισμοι
Luke 2:35 (Yea, a sword shall pierce through thy own soul also,) that the thoughts of many hearts may be revealed.
Luke 2:36 και ην αννα προφητις θυγατηρ φανουηλ εκ φυλης ασηρ αυτη προβεβηκυια εν ημεραις πολλαις ζησασα ετη μετα ανδρος επτα απο της παρθενιας αυτης
Luke 2:36 And there was one Anna, a prophetess, the daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe of Aser: she was of a great age, and had lived with an husband seven years from her virginity;
Luke 2:37 και αυτη χηρα ως ετων ογδοηκοντατεσσαρων η ουκ αφιστατο απο του ιερου νηστειαις και δεησεσιν λατρευουσα νυκτα και ημεραν
Luke 2:37 And she was a widow of about fourscore and four years, which departed not from the temple, but served God with fastings and prayers night and day.
Luke 2:38 και αυτη αυτη τη ωρα επιστασα ανθωμολογειτο τω κυριω και ελαλει περι αυτου πασιν τοις προσδεχομενοις λυτρωσιν εν ιερουσαλημ
Luke 2:38 And she coming in that instant gave thanks likewise unto the Lord, and spake of him to all them that looked for redemption in Jerusalem.
Luke 2:39 και ως ετελεσαν απαντα τα κατα τον νομον κυριου υπεστρεψαν εις την γαλιλαιαν εις την πολιν αυτων ναζαρετ
Luke 2:39 And when they had performed all things according to the law of the Lord, they returned into Galilee, to their own city Nazareth.
Luke 2:40 το δε παιδιον ηυξανεν και εκραταιουτο πνευματι πληρουμενον σοφιας και χαρις θεου ην επ αυτο
Luke 2:40 And the child grew, and waxed strong in spirit, filled with wisdom: and the grace of God was upon him.
Luke 2:41 και επορευοντο οι γονεις αυτου κατ ετος εις ιερουσαλημ τη εορτη του πασχα
Luke 2:41 Now his parents went to Jerusalem every year at the feast of the passover.
Luke 2:42 και οτε εγενετο ετων δωδεκα αναβαντων αυτων εις ιεροσολυμα κατα το εθος της εορτης
Luke 2:42 And when he was twelve years old, they went up to Jerusalem after the custom of the feast.
Luke 2:43 και τελειωσαντων τας ημερας εν τω υποστρεφειν αυτους υπεμεινεν ιησους ο παις εν ιερουσαλημ και ουκ εγνω ιωσηφ και η μητηρ αυτου
Luke 2:43 And when they had fulfilled the days, as they returned, the child Jesus tarried behind in Jerusalem; and Joseph and his mother knew not of it.
Luke 2:44 νομισαντες δε αυτον εν τη συνοδια ειναι ηλθον ημερας οδον και ανεζητουν αυτον εν τοις συγγενεσιν και εν τοις γνωστοις
Luke 2:44 But they, supposing him to have been in the company, went a day's journey; and they sought him among their kinsfolk and acquaintance.
Luke 2:45 και μη ευροντες αυτον υπεστρεψαν εις ιερουσαλημ ζητουντες αυτον
Luke 2:45 And when they found him not, they turned back again to Jerusalem, seeking him.
Luke 2:46 και εγενετο μεθ ημερας τρεις ευρον αυτον εν τω ιερω καθεζομενον εν μεσω των διδασκαλων και ακουοντα αυτων και επερωτωντα αυτους
Luke 2:46 And it came to pass, that after three days they found him in the temple, sitting in the midst of the doctors, both hearing them, and asking them questions.
Luke 2:47 εξισταντο δε παντες οι ακουοντες αυτου επι τη συνεσει και ταις αποκρισεσιν αυτου
Luke 2:47 And all that heard him were astonished at his understanding and answers.
Luke 2:48 και ιδοντες αυτον εξεπλαγησαν και προς αυτον η μητηρ αυτου ειπεν τεκνον τι εποιησας ημιν ουτως ιδου ο πατηρ σου καγω οδυνωμενοι εζητουμεν σε
Luke 2:48 And when they saw him, they were amazed: and his mother said unto him, Son, why hast thou thus dealt with us? behold, thy father and I have sought thee sorrowing.
Luke 2:49 και ειπεν προς αυτους τι οτι εζητειτε με ουκ ηδειτε οτι εν τοις του πατρος μου δει ειναι με
Luke 2:49 And he said unto them, How is it that ye sought me? wist ye not that I must be about my Father's business?
Luke 2:50 και αυτοι ου συνηκαν το ρημα ο ελαλησεν αυτοις
Luke 2:50 And they understood not the saying which he spake unto them.
Luke 2:51 και κατεβη μετ αυτων και ηλθεν εις ναζαρετ και ην υποτασσομενος αυτοις και η μητηρ αυτου διετηρει παντα τα ρηματα ταυτα εν τη καρδια αυτης
Luke 2:51 And he went down with them, and came to Nazareth, and was subject unto them: but his mother kept all these sayings in her heart.
Luke 2:52 και ιησους προεκοπτεν σοφια και ηλικια και χαριτι παρα θεω και ανθρωποις
Luke 2:52 And Jesus increased in wisdom and stature, and in favour with God and man.
Luke 3:1 εν ετει δε πεντεκαιδεκατω της ηγεμονιας τιβεριου καισαρος ηγεμονευοντος ποντιου πιλατου της ιουδαιας και τετραρχουντος της γαλιλαιας ηρωδου φιλιππου δε του αδελφου αυτου τετραρχουντος της ιτουραιας και τραχωνιτιδος χωρας και λυσανιου της αβιληνης τετραρχουντος
Luke 3:1 Now in the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar, Pontius Pilate being governor of Judaea, and Herod being tetrarch of Galilee, and his brother Philip tetrarch of Ituraea and of the region of Trachonitis, and Lysanias the tetrarch of Abilene,
Luke 3:2 επ αρχιερεων αννα και καιαφα εγενετο ρημα θεου επι ιωαννην τον του ζαχαριου υιον εν τη ερημω
Luke 3:2 Annas and Caiaphas being the high priests, the word of God came unto John the son of Zacharias in the wilderness.
Luke 3:3 και ηλθεν εις πασαν την περιχωρον του ιορδανου κηρυσσων βαπτισμα μετανοιας εις αφεσιν αμαρτιων
Luke 3:3 And he came into all the country about Jordan, preaching the baptism of repentance for the remission of sins;
Luke 3:4 ως γεγραπται εν βιβλω λογων ησαιου του προφητου λεγοντος φωνη βοωντος εν τη ερημω ετοιμασατε την οδον κυριου ευθειας ποιειτε τας τριβους αυτου
Luke 3:4 As it is written in the book of the words of Esaias the prophet, saying, The voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make his paths straight.
Luke 3:5 πασα φαραγξ πληρωθησεται και παν ορος και βουνος ταπεινωθησεται και εσται τα σκολια εις ευθειαν και αι τραχειαι εις οδους λειας
Luke 3:5 Every valley shall be filled, and every mountain and hill shall be brought low; and the crooked shall be made straight, and the rough ways shall be made smooth;
Luke 3:6 και οψεται πασα σαρξ το σωτηριον του θεου
Luke 3:6 And all flesh shall see the salvation of God.
Luke 3:7 ελεγεν ουν τοις εκπορευομενοις οχλοις βαπτισθηναι υπ αυτου γεννηματα εχιδνων τις υπεδειξεν υμιν φυγειν απο της μελλουσης οργης
Luke 3:7 Then said he to the multitude that came forth to be baptized of him, O generation of vipers, who hath warned you to flee from the wrath to come?
Luke 3:8 ποιησατε ουν καρπους αξιους της μετανοιας και μη αρξησθε λεγειν εν εαυτοις πατερα εχομεν τον αβρααμ λεγω γαρ υμιν οτι δυναται ο θεος εκ των λιθων τουτων εγειραι τεκνα τω αβρααμ
Luke 3:8 Bring forth therefore fruits worthy of repentance, and begin not to say within yourselves, We have Abraham to our father: for I say unto you, That God is able of these stones to raise up children unto Abraham.
Luke 3:9 ηδη δε και η αξινη προς την ριζαν των δενδρων κειται παν ουν δενδρον μη ποιουν καρπον καλον εκκοπτεται και εις πυρ βαλλεται
Luke 3:9 And now also the axe is laid unto the root of the trees: every tree therefore which bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down, and cast into the fire.
Luke 3:10 και επηρωτων αυτον οι οχλοι λεγοντες τι ουν ποιησομεν
Luke 3:10 And the people asked him, saying, What shall we do then?
Luke 3:11 αποκριθεις δε λεγει αυτοις ο εχων δυο χιτωνας μεταδοτω τω μη εχοντι και ο εχων βρωματα ομοιως ποιειτω
Luke 3:11 He answereth and saith unto them, He that hath two coats, let him impart to him that hath none; and he that hath meat, let him do likewise.
Luke 3:12 ηλθον δε και τελωναι βαπτισθηναι και ειπον προς αυτον διδασκαλε τι ποιησομεν
Luke 3:12 Then came also publicans to be baptized, and said unto him, Master, what shall we do?
Luke 3:13 ο δε ειπεν προς αυτους μηδεν πλεον παρα το διατεταγμενον υμιν πρασσετε
Luke 3:13 And he said unto them, Exact no more than that which is appointed you.
Luke 3:14 επηρωτων δε αυτον και στρατευομενοι λεγοντες και ημεις τι ποιησομεν και ειπεν προς αυτους μηδενα διασεισητε μηδε συκοφαντησητε και αρκεισθε τοις οψωνιοις υμων
Luke 3:14 And the soldiers likewise demanded of him, saying, And what shall we do? And he said unto them, Do violence to no man, neither accuse any falsely; and be content with your wages.
Luke 3:15 προσδοκωντος δε του λαου και διαλογιζομενων παντων εν ταις καρδιαις αυτων περι του ιωαννου μηποτε αυτος ειη ο χριστος
Luke 3:15 And as the people were in expectation, and all men mused in their hearts of John, whether he were the Christ, or not;
Luke 3:16 απεκρινατο ο ιωαννης απασιν λεγων εγω μεν υδατι βαπτιζω υμας ερχεται δε ο ισχυροτερος μου ου ουκ ειμι ικανος λυσαι τον ιμαντα των υποδηματων αυτου αυτος υμας βαπτισει εν πνευματι αγιω και πυρι
Luke 3:16 John answered, saying unto them all, I indeed baptize you with water; but one mightier than I cometh, the latchet of whose shoes I am not worthy to unloose: he shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost and with fire:
Luke 3:17 ου το πτυον εν τη χειρι αυτου και διακαθαριει την αλωνα αυτου και συναξει τον σιτον εις την αποθηκην αυτου το δε αχυρον κατακαυσει πυρι ασβεστω
Luke 3:17 Whose fan is in his hand, and he will throughly purge his floor, and will gather the wheat into his garner; but the chaff he will burn with fire unquenchable.
Luke 3:18 πολλα μεν ουν και ετερα παρακαλων ευηγγελιζετο τον λαον
Luke 3:18 And many other things in his exhortation preached he unto the people.
Luke 3:19 ο δε ηρωδης ο τετραρχης ελεγχομενος υπ αυτου περι ηρωδιαδος της γυναικος φιλιππου του αδελφου αυτου και περι παντων ων εποιησεν πονηρων ο ηρωδης
Luke 3:19 But Herod the tetrarch, being reproved by him for Herodias his brother Philip's wife, and for all the evils which Herod had done,
Luke 3:20 προσεθηκεν και τουτο επι πασιν και κατεκλεισεν τον ιωαννην εν τη φυλακη
Luke 3:20 Added yet this above all, that he shut up John in prison.
Luke 3:21 εγενετο δε εν τω βαπτισθηναι απαντα τον λαον και ιησου βαπτισθεντος και προσευχομενου ανεωχθηναι τον ουρανον
Luke 3:21 Now when all the people were baptized, it came to pass, that Jesus also being baptized, and praying, the heaven was opened,
Luke 3:22 και καταβηναι το πνευμα το αγιον σωματικω ειδει ωσει περιστεραν επ αυτον και φωνην εξ ουρανου γενεσθαι λεγουσαν συ ει ο υιος μου ο αγαπητος εν σοι ηυδοκησα
Luke 3:22 And the Holy Ghost descended in a bodily shape like a dove upon him, and a voice came from heaven, which said, Thou art my beloved Son; in thee I am well pleased.
Luke 3:23 και αυτος ην ο ιησους ωσει ετων τριακοντα αρχομενος ων ως ενομιζετο υιος ιωσηφ του ηλι
Luke 3:23 And Jesus himself began to be about thirty years of age, being (as was supposed) the son of Joseph, which was the son of Heli,
Luke 3:24 του ματθατ του λευι του μελχι του ιαννα του ιωσηφ
Luke 3:24 Which was the son of Matthat, which was the son of Levi, which was the son of Melchi, which was the son of Janna, which was the son of Joseph,
Luke 3:25 του ματταθιου του αμως του ναουμ του εσλι του ναγγαι
Luke 3:25 Which was the son of Mattathias, which was the son of Amos, which was the son of Naum, which was the son of Esli, which was the son of Nagge,
Luke 3:26 του μααθ του ματταθιου του σεμει του ιωσηφ του ιουδα
Luke 3:26 Which was the son of Maath, which was the son of Mattathias, which was the son of Semei, which was the son of Joseph, which was the son of Juda,
Luke 3:27 του ιωαννα του ρησα του ζοροβαβελ του σαλαθιηλ του νηρι
Luke 3:27 Which was the son of Joanna, which was the son of Rhesa, which was the son of Zorobabel, which was the son of Salathiel, which was the son of Neri,
Luke 3:28 του μελχι του αδδι του κωσαμ του ελμωδαμ του ηρ
Luke 3:28 Which was the son of Melchi, which was the son of Addi, which was the son of Cosam, which was the son of Elmodam, which was the son of Er,
Luke 3:29 του ιωση του ελιεζερ του ιωρειμ του ματθατ του λευι
Luke 3:29 Which was the son of Jose, which was the son of Eliezer, which was the son of Jorim, which was the son of Matthat, which was the son of Levi,
Luke 3:30 του συμεων του ιουδα του ιωσηφ του ιωναν του ελιακειμ
Luke 3:30 Which was the son of Simeon, which was the son of Juda, which was the son of Joseph, which was the son of Jonan, which was the son of Eliakim,
Luke 3:31 του μελεα του μαιναν του ματταθα του ναθαν του δαβιδ
Luke 3:31 Which was the son of Melea, which was the son of Menan, which was the son of Mattatha, which was the son of Nathan, which was the son of David,
Luke 3:32 του ιεσσαι του ωβηδ του βοοζ του σαλμων του ναασσων
Luke 3:32 Which was the son of Jesse, which was the son of Obed, which was the son of Booz, which was the son of Salmon, which was the son of Naasson,
Luke 3:33 του αμιναδαβ του αραμ του εσρωμ του φαρες του ιουδα
Luke 3:33 Which was the son of Aminadab, which was the son of Aram, which was the son of Esrom, which was the son of Phares, which was the son of Juda,
Luke 3:34 του ιακωβ του ισαακ του αβρααμ του θαρα του ναχωρ
Luke 3:34 Which was the son of Jacob, which was the son of Isaac, which was the son of Abraham, which was the son of Thara, which was the son of Nachor,
Luke 3:35 του σαρουχ του ραγαυ του φαλεκ του εβερ του σαλα
Luke 3:35 Which was the son of Saruch, which was the son of Ragau, which was the son of Phalec, which was the son of Heber, which was the son of Sala,
Luke 3:36 του καιναν του αρφαξαδ του σημ του νωε του λαμεχ
Luke 3:36 Which was the son of Cainan, which was the son of Arphaxad, which was the son of Sem, which was the son of Noe, which was the son of Lamech,
Luke 3:37 του μαθουσαλα του ενωχ του ιαρεδ του μαλελεηλ του καιναν
Luke 3:37 Which was the son of Mathusala, which was the son of Enoch, which was the son of Jared, which was the son of Maleleel, which was the son of Cainan,
Luke 3:38 του ενως του σηθ του αδαμ του θεου
Luke 3:38 Which was the son of Enos, which was the son of Seth, which was the son of Adam, which was the son of God.
Luke 4:1 ιησους δε πνευματος αγιου πληρης υπεστρεψεν απο του ιορδανου και ηγετο εν τω πνευματι εις την ερημον
Luke 4:1 And Jesus being full of the Holy Ghost returned from Jordan, and was led by the Spirit into the wilderness,
Luke 4:2 ημερας τεσσαρακοντα πειραζομενος υπο του διαβολου και ουκ εφαγεν ουδεν εν ταις ημεραις εκειναις και συντελεσθεισων αυτων υστερον επεινασεν
Luke 4:2 Being forty days tempted of the devil. And in those days he did eat nothing: and when they were ended, he afterward hungered.
Luke 4:3 και ειπεν αυτω ο διαβολος ει υιος ει του θεου ειπε τω λιθω τουτω ινα γενηται αρτος
Luke 4:3 And the devil said unto him, If thou be the Son of God, command this stone that it be made bread.
Luke 4:4 και απεκριθη ιησους προς αυτον λεγων γεγραπται οτι ουκ επ αρτω μονω ζησεται ο ανθρωπος αλλ επι παντι ρηματι θεου
Luke 4:4 And Jesus answered him, saying, It is written, That man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word of God.
Luke 4:5 και αναγαγων αυτον ο διαβολος εις ορος υψηλον εδειξεν αυτω πασας τας βασιλειας της οικουμενης εν στιγμη χρονου
Luke 4:5 And the devil, taking him up into an high mountain, shewed unto him all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time.
Luke 4:6 και ειπεν αυτω ο διαβολος σοι δωσω την εξουσιαν ταυτην απασαν και την δοξαν αυτων οτι εμοι παραδεδοται και ω εαν θελω διδωμι αυτην
Luke 4:6 And the devil said unto him, All this power will I give thee, and the glory of them: for that is delivered unto me; and to whomsoever I will I give it.
Luke 4:7 συ ουν εαν προσκυνησης ενωπιον μου εσται σου παντα
Luke 4:7 If thou therefore wilt worship me, all shall be thine.
Luke 4:8 και αποκριθεις αυτω ειπεν ο ιησους υπαγε οπισω μου σατανα γεγραπται γαρ προσκυνησεις κυριον τον θεον σου και αυτω μονω λατρευσεις
Luke 4:8 And Jesus answered and said unto him, Get thee behind me, Satan: for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve.
Luke 4:9 και ηγαγεν αυτον εις ιερουσαλημ και εστησεν αυτον επι το πτερυγιον του ιερου και ειπεν αυτω ει ο υιος ει του θεου βαλε σεαυτον εντευθεν κατω
Luke 4:9 And he brought him to Jerusalem, and set him on a pinnacle of the temple, and said unto him, If thou be the Son of God, cast thyself down from hence:
Luke 4:10 γεγραπται γαρ οτι τοις αγγελοις αυτου εντελειται περι σου του διαφυλαξαι σε
Luke 4:10 For it is written, He shall give his angels charge over thee, to keep thee:
Luke 4:11 και οτι επι χειρων αρουσιν σε μηποτε προσκοψης προς λιθον τον ποδα σου
Luke 4:11 And in their hands they shall bear thee up, lest at any time thou dash thy foot against a stone.
Luke 4:12 και αποκριθεις ειπεν αυτω ο ιησους οτι ειρηται ουκ εκπειρασεις κυριον τον θεον σου
Luke 4:12 And Jesus answering said unto him, It is said, Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God.
Luke 4:13 και συντελεσας παντα πειρασμον ο διαβολος απεστη απ αυτου αχρι καιρου
Luke 4:13 And when the devil had ended all the temptation, he departed from him for a season.
Luke 4:14 και υπεστρεψεν ο ιησους εν τη δυναμει του πνευματος εις την γαλιλαιαν και φημη εξηλθεν καθ ολης της περιχωρου περι αυτου
Luke 4:14 And Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit into Galilee: and there went out a fame of him through all the region round about.
Luke 4:15 και αυτος εδιδασκεν εν ταις συναγωγαις αυτων δοξαζομενος υπο παντων
Luke 4:15 And he taught in their synagogues, being glorified of all.
Luke 4:16 και ηλθεν εις την ναζαρετ ου ην τεθραμμενος και εισηλθεν κατα το ειωθος αυτω εν τη ημερα των σαββατων εις την συναγωγην και ανεστη αναγνωναι
Luke 4:16 And he came to Nazareth, where he had been brought up: and, as his custom was, he went into the synagogue on the sabbath day, and stood up for to read.
Luke 4:17 και επεδοθη αυτω βιβλιον ησαιου του προφητου και αναπτυξας το βιβλιον ευρεν τον τοπον ου ην γεγραμμενον
Luke 4:17 And there was delivered unto him the book of the prophet Esaias. And when he had opened the book, he found the place where it was written,
Luke 4:18 πνευμα κυριου επ εμε ου ενεκεν εχρισεν με ευαγγελιζεσθαι πτωχοις απεσταλκεν με ιασασθαι τους συντετριμμενους την καρδιαν κηρυξαι αιχμαλωτοις αφεσιν και τυφλοις αναβλεψιν αποστειλαι τεθραυσμενους εν αφεσει
Luke 4:18 The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he hath anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor; he hath sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to preach deliverance to the captives, and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty them that are bruised,
Luke 4:19 κηρυξαι ενιαυτον κυριου δεκτον
Luke 4:19 To preach the acceptable year of the Lord.
Luke 4:20 και πτυξας το βιβλιον αποδους τω υπηρετη εκαθισεν και παντων εν τη συναγωγη οι οφθαλμοι ησαν ατενιζοντες αυτω
Luke 4:20 And he closed the book, and he gave it again to the minister, and sat down. And the eyes of all them that were in the synagogue were fastened on him.
Luke 4:21 ηρξατο δε λεγειν προς αυτους οτι σημερον πεπληρωται η γραφη αυτη εν τοις ωσιν υμων
Luke 4:21 And he began to say unto them, This day is this scripture fulfilled in your ears.
Luke 4:22 και παντες εμαρτυρουν αυτω και εθαυμαζον επι τοις λογοις της χαριτος τοις εκπορευομενοις εκ του στοματος αυτου και ελεγον ουχ ουτος εστιν ο υιος ιωσηφ
Luke 4:22 And all bare him witness, and wondered at the gracious words which proceeded out of his mouth. And they said, Is not this Joseph's son?
Luke 4:23 και ειπεν προς αυτους παντως ερειτε μοι την παραβολην ταυτην ιατρε θεραπευσον σεαυτον οσα ηκουσαμεν γενομενα εν τη καπερναουμ ποιησον και ωδε εν τη πατριδι σου
Luke 4:23 And he said unto them, Ye will surely say unto me this proverb, Physician, heal thyself: whatsoever we have heard done in Capernaum, do also here in thy country.
Luke 4:24 ειπεν δε αμην λεγω υμιν οτι ουδεις προφητης δεκτος εστιν εν τη πατριδι αυτου
Luke 4:24 And he said, Verily I say unto you, No prophet is accepted in his own country.
Luke 4:25 επ αληθειας δε λεγω υμιν πολλαι χηραι ησαν εν ταις ημεραις ηλιου εν τω ισραηλ οτε εκλεισθη ο ουρανος επι ετη τρια και μηνας εξ ως εγενετο λιμος μεγας επι πασαν την γην
Luke 4:25 But I tell you of a truth, many widows were in Israel in the days of Elias, when the heaven was shut up three years and six months, when great famine was throughout all the land;
Luke 4:26 και προς ουδεμιαν αυτων επεμφθη ηλιας ει μη εις σαρεπτα της σιδωνος προς γυναικα χηραν
Luke 4:26 But unto none of them was Elias sent, save unto Sarepta, a city of Sidon, unto a woman that was a widow.
Luke 4:27 και πολλοι λεπροι ησαν επι ελισσαιου του προφητου εν τω ισραηλ και ουδεις αυτων εκαθαρισθη ει μη νεεμαν ο συρος
Luke 4:27 And many lepers were in Israel in the time of Eliseus the prophet; and none of them was cleansed, saving Naaman the Syrian.
Luke 4:28 και επλησθησαν παντες θυμου εν τη συναγωγη ακουοντες ταυτα
Luke 4:28 And all they in the synagogue, when they heard these things, were filled with wrath,
Luke 4:29 και ανασταντες εξεβαλον αυτον εξω της πολεως και ηγαγον αυτον εως της οφρυος του ορους εφ ου η πολις αυτων ωκοδομητο εις το κατακρημνισαι αυτον
Luke 4:29 And rose up, and thrust him out of the city, and led him unto the brow of the hill whereon their city was built, that they might cast him down headlong.
Luke 4:30 αυτος δε διελθων δια μεσου αυτων επορευετο
Luke 4:30 But he passing through the midst of them went his way,
Luke 4:31 και κατηλθεν εις καπερναουμ πολιν της γαλιλαιας και ην διδασκων αυτους εν τοις σαββασιν
Luke 4:31 And came down to Capernaum, a city of Galilee, and taught them on the sabbath days.
Luke 4:32 και εξεπλησσοντο επι τη διδαχη αυτου οτι εν εξουσια ην ο λογος αυτου
Luke 4:32 And they were astonished at his doctrine: for his word was with power.
Luke 4:33 και εν τη συναγωγη ην ανθρωπος εχων πνευμα δαιμονιου ακαθαρτου και ανεκραξεν φωνη μεγαλη
Luke 4:33 And in the synagogue there was a man, which had a spirit of an unclean devil, and cried out with a loud voice,
Luke 4:34 λεγων εα τι ημιν και σοι ιησου ναζαρηνε ηλθες απολεσαι ημας οιδα σε τις ει ο αγιος του θεου
Luke 4:34 Saying, Let us alone; what have we to do with thee, thou Jesus of Nazareth? art thou come to destroy us? I know thee who thou art; the Holy One of God.
Luke 4:35 και επετιμησεν αυτω ο ιησους λεγων φιμωθητι και εξελθε εξ αυτου και ριψαν αυτον το δαιμονιον εις το μεσον εξηλθεν απ αυτου μηδεν βλαψαν αυτον
Luke 4:35 And Jesus rebuked him, saying, Hold thy peace, and come out of him. And when the devil had thrown him in the midst, he came out of him, and hurt him not.
Luke 4:36 και εγενετο θαμβος επι παντας και συνελαλουν προς αλληλους λεγοντες τις ο λογος ουτος οτι εν εξουσια και δυναμει επιτασσει τοις ακαθαρτοις πνευμασιν και εξερχονται
Luke 4:36 And they were all amazed, and spake among themselves, saying, What a word is this! for with authority and power he commandeth the unclean spirits, and they come out.
Luke 4:37 και εξεπορευετο ηχος περι αυτου εις παντα τοπον της περιχωρου
Luke 4:37 And the fame of him went out into every place of the country round about.
Luke 4:38 αναστας δε εκ της συναγωγης εισηλθεν εις την οικιαν σιμωνος η πενθερα δε του σιμωνος ην συνεχομενη πυρετω μεγαλω και ηρωτησαν αυτον περι αυτης
Luke 4:38 And he arose out of the synagogue, and entered into Simon's house. And Simon's wife's mother was taken with a great fever; and they besought him for her.
Luke 4:39 και επιστας επανω αυτης επετιμησεν τω πυρετω και αφηκεν αυτην παραχρημα δε αναστασα διηκονει αυτοις
Luke 4:39 And he stood over her, and rebuked the fever; and it left her: and immediately she arose and ministered unto them.
Luke 4:40 δυνοντος δε του ηλιου παντες οσοι ειχον ασθενουντας νοσοις ποικιλαις ηγαγον αυτους προς αυτον ο δε ενι εκαστω αυτων τας χειρας επιθεις εθεραπευσεν αυτους
Luke 4:40 Now when the sun was setting, all they that had any sick with divers diseases brought them unto him; and he laid his hands on every one of them, and healed them.
Luke 4:41 εξηρχετο δε και δαιμονια απο πολλων κραζοντα και λεγοντα οτι συ ει ο χριστος ο υιος του θεου και επιτιμων ουκ εια αυτα λαλειν οτι ηδεισαν τον χριστον αυτον ειναι
Luke 4:41 And devils also came out of many, crying out, and saying, Thou art Christ the Son of God. And he rebuking them suffered them not to speak: for they knew that he was Christ.
Luke 4:42 γενομενης δε ημερας εξελθων επορευθη εις ερημον τοπον και οι οχλοι εζητουν αυτον και ηλθον εως αυτου και κατειχον αυτον του μη πορευεσθαι απ αυτων
Luke 4:42 And when it was day, he departed and went into a desert place: and the people sought him, and came unto him, and stayed him, that he should not depart from them.
Luke 4:43 ο δε ειπεν προς αυτους οτι και ταις ετεραις πολεσιν ευαγγελισασθαι με δει την βασιλειαν του θεου οτι εις τουτο απεσταλμαι
Luke 4:43 And he said unto them, I must preach the kingdom of God to other cities also: for therefore am I sent.
Luke 4:44 και ην κηρυσσων εν ταις συναγωγαις της γαλιλαιας
Luke 4:44 And he preached in the synagogues of Galilee.
Luke 5:1 εγενετο δε εν τω τον οχλον επικεισθαι αυτω του ακουειν τον λογον του θεου και αυτος ην εστως παρα την λιμνην γεννησαρετ
Luke 5:1 And it came to pass, that, as the people pressed upon him to hear the word of God, he stood by the lake of Gennesaret,
Luke 5:2 και ειδεν δυο πλοια εστωτα παρα την λιμνην οι δε αλιεις αποβαντες απ αυτων απεπλυναν τα δικτυα
Luke 5:2 And saw two ships standing by the lake: but the fishermen were gone out of them, and were washing their nets.
Luke 5:3 εμβας δε εις εν των πλοιων ο ην του σιμωνος ηρωτησεν αυτον απο της γης επαναγαγειν ολιγον και καθισας εδιδασκεν εκ του πλοιου τους οχλους
Luke 5:3 And he entered into one of the ships, which was Simon's, and prayed him that he would thrust out a little from the land.  And he sat down, and taught the people out of the ship.
Luke 5:4 ως δε επαυσατο λαλων ειπεν προς τον σιμωνα επαναγαγε εις το βαθος και χαλασατε τα δικτυα υμων εις αγραν
Luke 5:4 Now when he had left speaking, he said unto Simon, Launch out into the deep, and let down your nets for a draught.
Luke 5:5 και αποκριθεις ο σιμων ειπεν αυτω επιστατα δι ολης της νυκτος κοπιασαντες ουδεν ελαβομεν επι δε τω ρηματι σου χαλασω το δικτυον
Luke 5:5 And Simon answering said unto him, Master, we have toiled all the night, and have taken nothing: nevertheless at thy word I will let down the net.
Luke 5:6 και τουτο ποιησαντες συνεκλεισαν ιχθυων πληθος πολυ διερρηγνυτο δε το δικτυον αυτων
Luke 5:6 And when they had this done, they inclosed a great multitude of fishes: and their net brake.
Luke 5:7 και κατενευσαν τοις μετοχοις τοις εν τω ετερω πλοιω του ελθοντας συλλαβεσθαι αυτοις και ηλθον και επλησαν αμφοτερα τα πλοια ωστε βυθιζεσθαι αυτα
Luke 5:7 And they beckoned unto their partners, which were in the other ship, that they should come and help them. And they came, and filled both the ships, so that they began to sink.
Luke 5:8 ιδων δε σιμων πετρος προσεπεσεν τοις γονασιν του ιησου λεγων εξελθε απ εμου οτι ανηρ αμαρτωλος ειμι κυριε
Luke 5:8 When Simon Peter saw it, he fell down at Jesus' knees, saying, Depart from me; for I am a sinful man, O Lord.
Luke 5:9 θαμβος γαρ περιεσχεν αυτον και παντας τους συν αυτω επι τη αγρα των ιχθυων η συνελαβον
Luke 5:9 For he was astonished, and all that were with him, at the draught of the fishes which they had taken:
Luke 5:10 ομοιως δε και ιακωβον και ιωαννην υιους ζεβεδαιου οι ησαν κοινωνοι τω σιμωνι και ειπεν προς τον σιμωνα ο ιησους μη φοβου απο του νυν ανθρωπους εση ζωγρων
Luke 5:10 And so was also James, and John, the sons of Zebedee, which were partners with Simon. And Jesus said unto Simon, Fear not; from henceforth thou shalt catch men.
Luke 5:11 και καταγαγοντες τα πλοια επι την γην αφεντες απαντα ηκολουθησαν αυτω
Luke 5:11 And when they had brought their ships to land, they forsook all, and followed him.
Luke 5:12 και εγενετο εν τω ειναι αυτον εν μια των πολεων και ιδου ανηρ πληρης λεπρας και ιδων τον ιησουν πεσων επι προσωπον εδεηθη αυτου λεγων κυριε εαν θελης δυνασαι με καθαρισαι
Luke 5:12 And it came to pass, when he was in a certain city, behold a man full of leprosy: who seeing Jesus fell on his face, and besought him, saying, Lord, if thou wilt, thou canst make me clean.
Luke 5:13 και εκτεινας την χειρα ηψατο αυτου ειπων θελω καθαρισθητι και ευθεως η λεπρα απηλθεν απ αυτου
Luke 5:13 And he put forth his hand, and touched him, saying, I will: be thou clean. And immediately the leprosy departed from him.
Luke 5:14 και αυτος παρηγγειλεν αυτω μηδενι ειπειν αλλα απελθων δειξον σεαυτον τω ιερει και προσενεγκε περι του καθαρισμου σου καθως προσεταξεν μωσης εις μαρτυριον αυτοις
Luke 5:14 And he charged him to tell no man: but go, and shew thyself to the priest, and offer for thy cleansing, according as Moses commanded, for a testimony unto them.
Luke 5:15 διηρχετο δε μαλλον ο λογος περι αυτου και συνηρχοντο οχλοι πολλοι ακουειν και θεραπευεσθαι υπ αυτου απο των ασθενειων αυτων
Luke 5:15 But so much the more went there a fame abroad of him: and great multitudes came together to hear, and to be healed by him of their infirmities.
Luke 5:16 αυτος δε ην υποχωρων εν ταις ερημοις και προσευχομενος
Luke 5:16 And he withdrew himself into the wilderness, and prayed.
Luke 5:17 και εγενετο εν μια των ημερων και αυτος ην διδασκων και ησαν καθημενοι φαρισαιοι και νομοδιδασκαλοι οι ησαν εληλυθοτες εκ πασης κωμης της γαλιλαιας και ιουδαιας και ιερουσαλημ και δυναμις κυριου ην εις το ιασθαι αυτους
Luke 5:17 And it came to pass on a certain day, as he was teaching, that there were Pharisees and doctors of the law sitting by, which were come out of every town of Galilee, and Judaea, and Jerusalem: and the power of the Lord was present to heal them.
Luke 5:18 και ιδου ανδρες φεροντες επι κλινης ανθρωπον ος ην παραλελυμενος και εζητουν αυτον εισενεγκειν και θειναι ενωπιον αυτου
Luke 5:18 And, behold, men brought in a bed a man which was taken with a palsy: and they sought means to bring him in, and to lay him before him.
Luke 5:19 και μη ευροντες δια ποιας εισενεγκωσιν αυτον δια τον οχλον αναβαντες επι το δωμα δια των κεραμων καθηκαν αυτον συν τω κλινιδιω εις το μεσον εμπροσθεν του ιησου
Luke 5:19 And when they could not find by what way they might bring him in because of the multitude, they went upon the housetop, and let him down through the tiling with his couch into the midst before Jesus.
Luke 5:20 και ιδων την πιστιν αυτων ειπεν αυτω ανθρωπε αφεωνται σοι αι αμαρτιαι σου
Luke 5:20 And when he saw their faith, he said unto him, Man, thy sins are forgiven thee.
Luke 5:21 και ηρξαντο διαλογιζεσθαι οι γραμματεις και οι φαρισαιοι λεγοντες τις εστιν ουτος ος λαλει βλασφημιας τις δυναται αφιεναι αμαρτιας ει μη μονος ο θεος
Luke 5:21 And the scribes and the Pharisees began to reason, saying, Who is this which speaketh blasphemies? Who can forgive sins, but God alone?
Luke 5:22 επιγνους δε ο ιησους τους διαλογισμους αυτων αποκριθεις ειπεν προς αυτους τι διαλογιζεσθε εν ταις καρδιαις υμων
Luke 5:22 But when Jesus perceived their thoughts, he answering said unto them, What reason ye in your hearts?
Luke 5:23 τι εστιν ευκοπωτερον ειπειν αφεωνται σοι αι αμαρτιαι σου η ειπειν εγειραι και περιπατει
Luke 5:23 Whether is easier, to say, Thy sins be forgiven thee; or to say, Rise up and walk?
Luke 5:24 ινα δε ειδητε οτι εξουσιαν εχει ο υιος του ανθρωπου επι της γης αφιεναι αμαρτιας ειπεν τω παραλελυμενω σοι λεγω εγειραι και αρας το κλινιδιον σου πορευου εις τον οικον σου
Luke 5:24 But that ye may know that the Son of man hath power upon earth to forgive sins, (he said unto the sick of the palsy,) I say unto thee, Arise, and take up thy couch, and go into thine house.
Luke 5:25 και παραχρημα αναστας ενωπιον αυτων αρας εφ ω κατεκειτο απηλθεν εις τον οικον αυτου δοξαζων τον θεον
Luke 5:25 And immediately he rose up before them, and took up that whereon he lay, and departed to his own house, glorifying God.
Luke 5:26 και εκστασις ελαβεν απαντας και εδοξαζον τον θεον και επλησθησαν φοβου λεγοντες οτι ειδομεν παραδοξα σημερον
Luke 5:26 And they were all amazed, and they glorified God, and were filled with fear, saying, We have seen strange things to day.
Luke 5:27 και μετα ταυτα εξηλθεν και εθεασατο τελωνην ονοματι λευιν καθημενον επι το τελωνιον και ειπεν αυτω ακολουθει μοι
Luke 5:27 And after these things he went forth, and saw a publican, named Levi, sitting at the receipt of custom: and he said unto him, Follow me.
Luke 5:28 και καταλιπων απαντα αναστας ηκολουθησεν αυτω
Luke 5:28 And he left all, rose up, and followed him.
Luke 5:29 και εποιησεν δοχην μεγαλην ο λευις αυτω εν τη οικια αυτου και ην οχλος τελωνων πολυς και αλλων οι ησαν μετ αυτων κατακειμενοι
Luke 5:29 And Levi made him a great feast in his own house: and there was a great company of publicans and of others that sat down with them.
Luke 5:30 και εγογγυζον οι γραμματεις αυτων και οι φαρισαιοι προς τους μαθητας αυτου λεγοντες διατι μετα τελωνων και αμαρτωλων εσθιετε και πινετε
Luke 5:30 But their scribes and Pharisees murmured against his disciples, saying, Why do ye eat and drink with publicans and sinners?
Luke 5:31 και αποκριθεις ο ιησους ειπεν προς αυτους ου χρειαν εχουσιν οι υγιαινοντες ιατρου αλλ οι κακως εχοντες
Luke 5:31 And Jesus answering said unto them, They that are whole need not a physician; but they that are sick.
Luke 5:32 ουκ εληλυθα καλεσαι δικαιους αλλα αμαρτωλους εις μετανοιαν
Luke 5:32 I came not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance.
Luke 5:33 οι δε ειπον προς αυτον διατι οι μαθηται ιωαννου νηστευουσιν πυκνα και δεησεις ποιουνται ομοιως και οι των φαρισαιων οι δε σοι εσθιουσιν και πινουσιν
Luke 5:33 And they said unto him, Why do the disciples of John fast often, and make prayers, and likewise the disciples of the Pharisees; but thine eat and drink?
Luke 5:34 ο δε ειπεν προς αυτους μη δυνασθε τους υιους του νυμφωνος εν ω ο νυμφιος μετ αυτων εστιν ποιησαι νηστευειν
Luke 5:34 And he said unto them, Can ye make the children of the bridechamber fast, while the bridegroom is with them?
Luke 5:35 ελευσονται δε ημεραι και οταν απαρθη απ αυτων ο νυμφιος τοτε νηστευσουσιν εν εκειναις ταις ημεραις
Luke 5:35 But the days will come, when the bridegroom shall be taken away from them, and then shall they fast in those days.
Luke 5:36 ελεγεν δε και παραβολην προς αυτους οτι ουδεις επιβλημα ιματιου καινου επιβαλλει επι ιματιον παλαιον ει δε μηγε και το καινον σχιζει και τω παλαιω ου συμφωνει επιβλημα το απο του καινου
Luke 5:36 And he spake also a parable unto them; No man putteth a piece of a new garment upon an old; if otherwise, then both the new maketh a rent, and the piece that was taken out of the new agreeth not with the old.
Luke 5:37 και ουδεις βαλλει οινον νεον εις ασκους παλαιους ει δε μηγε ρηξει ο νεος οινος τους ασκους και αυτος εκχυθησεται και οι ασκοι απολουνται
Luke 5:37 And no man putteth new wine into old bottles; else the new wine will burst the bottles, and be spilled, and the bottles shall perish.
Luke 5:38 αλλα οινον νεον εις ασκους καινους βλητεον και αμφοτεροι συντηρουνται
Luke 5:38 But new wine must be put into new bottles; and both are preserved.
Luke 5:39 και ουδεις πιων παλαιον ευθεως θελει νεον λεγει γαρ ο παλαιος χρηστοτερος εστιν
Luke 5:39 No man also having drunk old wine straightway desireth new: for he saith, The old is better.
Luke 6:1 εγενετο δε εν σαββατω δευτεροπρωτω διαπορευεσθαι αυτον δια των σποριμων και ετιλλον οι μαθηται αυτου τους σταχυας και ησθιον ψωχοντες ταις χερσιν
Luke 6:1 And it came to pass on the second sabbath after the first, that he went through the corn fields; and his disciples plucked the ears of corn, and did eat, rubbing them in their hands.
Luke 6:2 τινες δε των φαρισαιων ειπον αυτοις τι ποιειτε ο ουκ εξεστιν ποιειν εν τοις σαββασιν
Luke 6:2 And certain of the Pharisees said unto them, Why do ye that which is not lawful to do on the sabbath days?
Luke 6:3 και αποκριθεις προς αυτους ειπεν ο ιησους ουδε τουτο ανεγνωτε ο εποιησεν δαβιδ οποτε επεινασεν αυτος και οι μετ αυτου οντες
Luke 6:3 And Jesus answering them said, Have ye not read so much as this, what David did, when himself was an hungred, and they which were with him;
Luke 6:4 ως εισηλθεν εις τον οικον του θεου και τους αρτους της προθεσεως ελαβεν και εφαγεν και εδωκεν και τοις μετ αυτου ους ουκ εξεστιν φαγειν ει μη μονους τους ιερεις
Luke 6:4 How he went into the house of God, and did take and eat the shewbread, and gave also to them that were with him; which it is not lawful to eat but for the priests alone?
Luke 6:5 και ελεγεν αυτοις οτι κυριος εστιν ο υιος του ανθρωπου και του σαββατου
Luke 6:5 And he said unto them, That the Son of man is Lord also of the sabbath.
Luke 6:6 εγενετο δε και εν ετερω σαββατω εισελθειν αυτον εις την συναγωγην και διδασκειν και ην εκει ανθρωπος και η χειρ αυτου η δεξια ην ξηρα
Luke 6:6 And it came to pass also on another sabbath, that he entered into the synagogue and taught: and there was a man whose right hand was withered.
Luke 6:7 παρετηρουν δε αυτον οι γραμματεις και οι φαρισαιοι ει εν τω σαββατω θεραπευσει ινα ευρωσιν κατηγοριαν αυτου
Luke 6:7 And the scribes and Pharisees watched him, whether he would heal on the sabbath day; that they might find an accusation against him.
Luke 6:8 αυτος δε ηδει τους διαλογισμους αυτων και ειπεν τω ανθρωπω τω ξηραν εχοντι την χειρα εγειραι και στηθι εις το μεσον ο δε αναστας εστη
Luke 6:8 But he knew their thoughts, and said to the man which had the withered hand, Rise up, and stand forth in the midst. And he arose and stood forth.
Luke 6:9 ειπεν ουν ο ιησους προς αυτους επερωτησω υμας τι εξεστιν τοις σαββασιν αγαθοποιησαι η κακοποιησαι ψυχην σωσαι η απολεσαι
Luke 6:9 Then said Jesus unto them, I will ask you one thing; Is it lawful on the sabbath days to do good, or to do evil? to save life, or to destroy it?
Luke 6:10 και περιβλεψαμενος παντας αυτους ειπεν τω ανθρωπω εκτεινον την χειρα σου ο δε εποιησεν ουτως και αποκατεσταθη η χειρ αυτου υγιης ως η αλλη
Luke 6:10 And looking round about upon them all, he said unto the man, Stretch forth thy hand. And he did so: and his hand was restored whole as the other.
Luke 6:11 αυτοι δε επλησθησαν ανοιας και διελαλουν προς αλληλους τι αν ποιησειαν τω ιησου
Luke 6:11 And they were filled with madness; and communed one with another what they might do to Jesus.
Luke 6:12 εγενετο δε εν ταις ημεραις ταυταις εξηλθεν εις το ορος προσευξασθαι και ην διανυκτερευων εν τη προσευχη του θεου
Luke 6:12 And it came to pass in those days, that he went out into a mountain to pray, and continued all night in prayer to God.
Luke 6:13 και οτε εγενετο ημερα προσεφωνησεν τους μαθητας αυτου και εκλεξαμενος απ αυτων δωδεκα ους και αποστολους ωνομασεν
Luke 6:13 And when it was day, he called unto him his disciples: and of them he chose twelve, whom also he named apostles;
Luke 6:14 σιμωνα ον και ωνομασεν πετρον και ανδρεαν τον αδελφον αυτου ιακωβον και ιωαννην φιλιππον και βαρθολομαιον
Luke 6:14 Simon, (whom he also named Peter,) and Andrew his brother, James and John, Philip and Bartholomew,
Luke 6:15 ματθαιον και θωμαν ιακωβον τον του αλφαιου και σιμωνα τον καλουμενον ζηλωτην
Luke 6:15 Matthew and Thomas, James the son of Alphaeus, and Simon called Zelotes,
Luke 6:16 ιουδαν ιακωβου και ιουδαν ισκαριωτην ος και εγενετο προδοτης
Luke 6:16 And Judas the brother of James, and Judas Iscariot, which also was the traitor.
Luke 6:17 και καταβας μετ αυτων εστη επι τοπου πεδινου και οχλος μαθητων αυτου και πληθος πολυ του λαου απο πασης της ιουδαιας και ιερουσαλημ και της παραλιου τυρου και σιδωνος οι ηλθον ακουσαι αυτου και ιαθηναι απο των νοσων αυτων
Luke 6:17 And he came down with them, and stood in the plain, and the company of his disciples, and a great multitude of people out of all Judaea and Jerusalem, and from the sea coast of Tyre and Sidon, which came to hear him, and to be healed of their diseases;
Luke 6:18 και οι οχλουμενοι υπο πνευματων ακαθαρτων και εθεραπευοντο
Luke 6:18 And they that were vexed with unclean spirits: and they were healed.
Luke 6:19 και πας ο οχλος εζητει απτεσθαι αυτου οτι δυναμις παρ αυτου εξηρχετο και ιατο παντας
Luke 6:19 And the whole multitude sought to touch him: for there went virtue out of him, and healed them all.
Luke 6:20 και αυτος επαρας τους οφθαλμους αυτου εις τους μαθητας αυτου ελεγεν μακαριοι οι πτωχοι οτι υμετερα εστιν η βασιλεια του θεου
Luke 6:20 And he lifted up his eyes on his disciples, and said, Blessed be ye poor: for yours is the kingdom of God.
Luke 6:21 μακαριοι οι πεινωντες νυν οτι χορτασθησεσθε μακαριοι οι κλαιοντες νυν οτι γελασετε
Luke 6:21 Blessed are ye that hunger now: for ye shall be filled.  Blessed are ye that weep now: for ye shall laugh.
Luke 6:22 μακαριοι εστε οταν μισησωσιν υμας οι ανθρωποι και οταν αφορισωσιν υμας και ονειδισωσιν και εκβαλωσιν το ονομα υμων ως πονηρον ενεκα του υιου του ανθρωπου
Luke 6:22 Blessed are ye, when men shall hate you, and when they shall separate you from their company, and shall reproach you, and cast out your name as evil, for the Son of man's sake.
Luke 6:23 χαιρετε εν εκεινη τη ημερα και σκιρτησατε ιδου γαρ ο μισθος υμων πολυς εν τω ουρανω κατα ταυτα γαρ εποιουν τοις προφηταις οι πατερες αυτων
Luke 6:23 Rejoice ye in that day, and leap for joy: for, behold, your reward is great in heaven: for in the like manner did their fathers unto the prophets.
Luke 6:24 πλην ουαι υμιν τοις πλουσιοις οτι απεχετε την παρακλησιν υμων
Luke 6:24 But woe unto you that are rich! for ye have received your consolation.
Luke 6:25 ουαι υμιν οι εμπεπλησμενοι οτι πεινασετε ουαι υμιν οι γελωντες νυν οτι πενθησετε και κλαυσετε
Luke 6:25 Woe unto you that are full! for ye shall hunger. Woe unto you that laugh now! for ye shall mourn and weep.
Luke 6:26 ουαι υμιν οταν καλως υμας ειπωσιν παντες οι ανθρωποι κατα ταυτα γαρ εποιουν τοις ψευδοπροφηταις οι πατερες αυτων
Luke 6:26 Woe unto you, when all men shall speak well of you! for so did their fathers to the false prophets.
Luke 6:27 αλλ υμιν λεγω τοις ακουουσιν αγαπατε τους εχθρους υμων καλως ποιειτε τοις μισουσιν υμας
Luke 6:27 But I say unto you which hear, Love your enemies, do good to them which hate you,
Luke 6:28 ευλογειτε τους καταρωμενους υμιν και προσευχεσθε υπερ των επηρεαζοντων υμας
Luke 6:28 Bless them that curse you, and pray for them which despitefully use you.
Luke 6:29 τω τυπτοντι σε επι την σιαγονα παρεχε και την αλλην και απο του αιροντος σου το ιματιον και τον χιτωνα μη κωλυσης
Luke 6:29 And unto him that smiteth thee on the one cheek offer also the other; and him that taketh away thy cloak forbid not to take thy coat also.
Luke 6:30 παντι δε τω αιτουντι σε διδου και απο του αιροντος τα σα μη απαιτει
Luke 6:30 Give to every man that asketh of thee; and of him that taketh away thy goods ask them not again.
Luke 6:31 και καθως θελετε ινα ποιωσιν υμιν οι ανθρωποι και υμεις ποιειτε αυτοις ομοιως
Luke 6:31 And as ye would that men should do to you, do ye also to them likewise.
Luke 6:32 και ει αγαπατε τους αγαπωντας υμας ποια υμιν χαρις εστιν και γαρ οι αμαρτωλοι τους αγαπωντας αυτους αγαπωσιν
Luke 6:32 For if ye love them which love you, what thank have ye? for sinners also love those that love them.
Luke 6:33 και εαν αγαθοποιητε τους αγαθοποιουντας υμας ποια υμιν χαρις εστιν και γαρ οι αμαρτωλοι το αυτο ποιουσιν
Luke 6:33 And if ye do good to them which do good to you, what thank have ye? for sinners also do even the same.
Luke 6:34 και εαν δανειζητε παρ ων ελπιζετε απολαβειν ποια υμιν χαρις εστιν και γαρ οι αμαρτωλοι αμαρτωλοις δανειζουσιν ινα απολαβωσιν τα ισα
Luke 6:34 And if ye lend to them of whom ye hope to receive, what thank have ye? for sinners also lend to sinners, to receive as much again.
Luke 6:35 πλην αγαπατε τους εχθρους υμων και αγαθοποιειτε και δανειζετε μηδεν απελπιζοντες και εσται ο μισθος υμων πολυς και εσεσθε υιοι του υψιστου οτι αυτος χρηστος εστιν επι τους αχαριστους και πονηρους
Luke 6:35 But love ye your enemies, and do good, and lend, hoping for nothing again; and your reward shall be great, and ye shall be the children of the Highest: for he is kind unto the unthankful and to the evil.
Luke 6:36 γινεσθε ουν οικτιρμονες καθως και ο πατηρ υμων οικτιρμων εστιν
Luke 6:36 Be ye therefore merciful, as your Father also is merciful.
Luke 6:37 και μη κρινετε και ου μη κριθητε μη καταδικαζετε και ου μη καταδικασθητε απολυετε και απολυθησεσθε
Luke 6:37 Judge not, and ye shall not be judged: condemn not, and ye shall not be condemned: forgive, and ye shall be forgiven:
Luke 6:38 διδοτε και δοθησεται υμιν μετρον καλον πεπιεσμενον και σεσαλευμενον και υπερεκχυνομενον δωσουσιν εις τον κολπον υμων τω γαρ αυτω μετρω ω μετρειτε αντιμετρηθησεται υμιν
Luke 6:38 Give, and it shall be given unto you; good measure, pressed down, and shaken together, and running over, shall men give into your bosom. For with the same measure that ye mete withal it shall be measured to you again.
Luke 6:39 ειπεν δε παραβολην αυτοις μητι δυναται τυφλος τυφλον οδηγειν ουχι αμφοτεροι εις βοθυνον πεσουνται
Luke 6:39 And he spake a parable unto them, Can the blind lead the blind? shall they not both fall into the ditch?
Luke 6:40 ουκ εστιν μαθητης υπερ τον διδασκαλον αυτου κατηρτισμενος δε πας εσται ως ο διδασκαλος αυτου
Luke 6:40 The disciple is not above his master: but every one that is perfect shall be as his master.
Luke 6:41 τι δε βλεπεις το καρφος το εν τω οφθαλμω του αδελφου σου την δε δοκον την εν τω ιδιω οφθαλμω ου κατανοεις
Luke 6:41 And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye, but perceivest not the beam that is in thine own eye?
Luke 6:42 η πως δυνασαι λεγειν τω αδελφω σου αδελφε αφες εκβαλω το καρφος το εν τω οφθαλμω σου αυτος την εν τω οφθαλμω σου δοκον ου βλεπων υποκριτα εκβαλε πρωτον την δοκον εκ του οφθαλμου σου και τοτε διαβλεψεις εκβαλειν το καρφος το εν τω οφθαλμω του αδελφου σου
Luke 6:42 Either how canst thou say to thy brother, Brother, let me pull out the mote that is in thine eye, when thou thyself beholdest not the beam that is in thine own eye? Thou hypocrite, cast out first the beam out of thine own eye, and then shalt thou see clearly to pull out the mote that is in thy brother's eye.
Luke 6:43 ου γαρ εστιν δενδρον καλον ποιουν καρπον σαπρον ουδε δενδρον σαπρον ποιουν καρπον καλον
Luke 6:43 For a good tree bringeth not forth corrupt fruit; neither doth a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit.
Luke 6:44 εκαστον γαρ δενδρον εκ του ιδιου καρπου γινωσκεται ου γαρ εξ ακανθων συλλεγουσιν συκα ουδε εκ βατου τρυγωσιν σταφυλην
Luke 6:44 For every tree is known by his own fruit. For of thorns men do not gather figs, nor of a bramble bush gather they grapes.
Luke 6:45 ο αγαθος ανθρωπος εκ του αγαθου θησαυρου της καρδιας αυτου προφερει το αγαθον και ο πονηρος ανθρωπος εκ του πονηρου θησαυρου της καρδιας αυτου προφερει το πονηρον εκ γαρ του περισσευματος της καρδιας λαλει το στομα αυτου
Luke 6:45 A good man out of the good treasure of his heart bringeth forth that which is good; and an evil man out of the evil treasure of his heart bringeth forth that which is evil: for of the abundance of the heart his mouth speaketh.
Luke 6:46 τι δε με καλειτε κυριε κυριε και ου ποιειτε α λεγω
Luke 6:46 And why call ye me, Lord, Lord, and do not the things which I say?
Luke 6:47 πας ο ερχομενος προς με και ακουων μου των λογων και ποιων αυτους υποδειξω υμιν τινι εστιν ομοιος
Luke 6:47 Whosoever cometh to me, and heareth my sayings, and doeth them, I will shew you to whom he is like:
Luke 6:48 ομοιος εστιν ανθρωπω οικοδομουντι οικιαν ος εσκαψεν και εβαθυνεν και εθηκεν θεμελιον επι την πετραν πλημμυρας δε γενομενης προσερρηξεν ο ποταμος τη οικια εκεινη και ουκ ισχυσεν σαλευσαι αυτην τεθεμελιωτο γαρ επι την πετραν
Luke 6:48 He is like a man which built an house, and digged deep, and laid the foundation on a rock: and when the flood arose, the stream beat vehemently upon that house, and could not shake it: for it was founded upon a rock.
Luke 6:49 ο δε ακουσας και μη ποιησας ομοιος εστιν ανθρωπω οικοδομησαντι οικιαν επι την γην χωρις θεμελιου η προσερρηξεν ο ποταμος και ευθεως επεσεν και εγενετο το ρηγμα της οικιας εκεινης μεγα
Luke 6:49 But he that heareth, and doeth not, is like a man that without a foundation built an house upon the earth; against which the stream did beat vehemently, and immediately it fell; and the ruin of that house was great.
Luke 7:1 επει δε επληρωσεν παντα τα ρηματα αυτου εις τας ακοας του λαου εισηλθεν εις καπερναουμ
Luke 7:1 Now when he had ended all his sayings in the audience of the people, he entered into Capernaum.
Luke 7:2 εκατονταρχου δε τινος δουλος κακως εχων ημελλεν τελευταν ος ην αυτω εντιμος
Luke 7:2 And a certain centurion's servant, who was dear unto him, was sick, and ready to die.
Luke 7:3 ακουσας δε περι του ιησου απεστειλεν προς αυτον πρεσβυτερους των ιουδαιων ερωτων αυτον οπως ελθων διασωση τον δουλον αυτου
Luke 7:3 And when he heard of Jesus, he sent unto him the elders of the Jews, beseeching him that he would come and heal his servant.
Luke 7:4 οι δε παραγενομενοι προς τον ιησουν παρεκαλουν αυτον σπουδαιως λεγοντες οτι αξιος εστιν ω παρεξει τουτο
Luke 7:4 And when they came to Jesus, they besought him instantly, saying, That he was worthy for whom he should do this:
Luke 7:5 αγαπα γαρ το εθνος ημων και την συναγωγην αυτος ωκοδομησεν ημιν
Luke 7:5 For he loveth our nation, and he hath built us a synagogue.
Luke 7:6 ο δε ιησους επορευετο συν αυτοις ηδη δε αυτου ου μακραν απεχοντος απο της οικιας επεμψεν προς αυτον ο εκατονταρχος φιλους λεγων αυτω κυριε μη σκυλλου ου γαρ ειμι ικανος ινα υπο την στεγην μου εισελθης
Luke 7:6 Then Jesus went with them. And when he was now not far from the house, the centurion sent friends to him, saying unto him, Lord, trouble not thyself: for I am not worthy that thou shouldest enter under my roof:
Luke 7:7 διο ουδε εμαυτον ηξιωσα προς σε ελθειν αλλα ειπε λογω και ιαθησεται ο παις μου
Luke 7:7 Wherefore neither thought I myself worthy to come unto thee: but say in a word, and my servant shall be healed.
Luke 7:8 και γαρ εγω ανθρωπος ειμι υπο εξουσιαν τασσομενος εχων υπ εμαυτον στρατιωτας και λεγω τουτω πορευθητι και πορευεται και αλλω ερχου και ερχεται και τω δουλω μου ποιησον τουτο και ποιει
Luke 7:8 For I also am a man set under authority, having under me soldiers, and I say unto one, Go, and he goeth; and to another, Come, and he cometh; and to my servant, Do this, and he doeth it.
Luke 7:9 ακουσας δε ταυτα ο ιησους εθαυμασεν αυτον και στραφεις τω ακολουθουντι αυτω οχλω ειπεν λεγω υμιν ουδε εν τω ισραηλ τοσαυτην πιστιν ευρον
Luke 7:9 When Jesus heard these things, he marvelled at him, and turned him about, and said unto the people that followed him, I say unto you, I have not found so great faith, no, not in Israel.
Luke 7:10 και υποστρεψαντες οι πεμφθεντες εις τον οικον ευρον τον ασθενουντα δουλον υγιαινοντα
Luke 7:10 And they that were sent, returning to the house, found the servant whole that had been sick.
Luke 7:11 και εγενετο εν τη εξης επορευετο εις πολιν καλουμενην ναιν και συνεπορευοντο αυτω οι μαθηται αυτου ικανοι και οχλος πολυς
Luke 7:11 And it came to pass the day after, that he went into a city called Nain; and many of his disciples went with him, and much people.
Luke 7:12 ως δε ηγγισεν τη πυλη της πολεως και ιδου εξεκομιζετο τεθνηκως υιος μονογενης τη μητρι αυτου και αυτη ην χηρα και οχλος της πολεως ικανος συν αυτη
Luke 7:12 Now when he came nigh to the gate of the city, behold, there was a dead man carried out, the only son of his mother, and she was a widow: and much people of the city was with her.
Luke 7:13 και ιδων αυτην ο κυριος εσπλαγχνισθη επ αυτη και ειπεν αυτη μη κλαιε
Luke 7:13 And when the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her, and said unto her, Weep not.
Luke 7:14 και προσελθων ηψατο της σορου οι δε βασταζοντες εστησαν και ειπεν νεανισκε σοι λεγω εγερθητι
Luke 7:14 And he came and touched the bier: and they that bare him stood still. And he said, Young man, I say unto thee, Arise.
Luke 7:15 και ανεκαθισεν ο νεκρος και ηρξατο λαλειν και εδωκεν αυτον τη μητρι αυτου
Luke 7:15 And he that was dead sat up, and began to speak. And he delivered him to his mother.
Luke 7:16 ελαβεν δε φοβος απαντας και εδοξαζον τον θεον λεγοντες οτι προφητης μεγας εγηγερται εν ημιν και οτι επεσκεψατο ο θεος τον λαον αυτου
Luke 7:16 And there came a fear on all: and they glorified God, saying, That a great prophet is risen up among us; and, That God hath visited his people.
Luke 7:17 και εξηλθεν ο λογος ουτος εν ολη τη ιουδαια περι αυτου και εν παση τη περιχωρω
Luke 7:17 And this rumour of him went forth throughout all Judaea, and throughout all the region round about.
Luke 7:18 και απηγγειλαν ιωαννη οι μαθηται αυτου περι παντων τουτων
Luke 7:18 And the disciples of John shewed him of all these things.
Luke 7:19 και προσκαλεσαμενος δυο τινας των μαθητων αυτου ο ιωαννης επεμψεν προς τον ιησουν λεγων συ ει ο ερχομενος η αλλον προσδοκωμεν
Luke 7:19 And John calling unto him two of his disciples sent them to Jesus, saying, Art thou he that should come? or look we for another?
Luke 7:20 παραγενομενοι δε προς αυτον οι ανδρες ειπον ιωαννης ο βαπτιστης απεσταλκεν ημας προς σε λεγων συ ει ο ερχομενος η αλλον προσδοκωμεν
Luke 7:20 When the men were come unto him, they said, John Baptist hath sent us unto thee, saying, Art thou he that should come? or look we for another?
Luke 7:21 εν αυτη δε τη ωρα εθεραπευσεν πολλους απο νοσων και μαστιγων και πνευματων πονηρων και τυφλοις πολλοις εχαρισατο το βλεπειν
Luke 7:21 And in that same hour he cured many of their infirmities and plagues, and of evil spirits; and unto many that were blind he gave sight.
Luke 7:22 και αποκριθεις ο ιησους ειπεν αυτοις πορευθεντες απαγγειλατε ιωαννη α ειδετε και ηκουσατε οτι τυφλοι αναβλεπουσιν χωλοι περιπατουσιν λεπροι καθαριζονται κωφοι ακουουσιν νεκροι εγειρονται πτωχοι ευαγγελιζονται
Luke 7:22 Then Jesus answering said unto them, Go your way, and tell John what things ye have seen and heard; how that the blind see, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, to the poor the gospel is preached.
Luke 7:23 και μακαριος εστιν ος εαν μη σκανδαλισθη εν εμοι
Luke 7:23 And blessed is he, whosoever shall not be offended in me.
Luke 7:24 απελθοντων δε των αγγελων ιωαννου ηρξατο λεγειν προς τους οχλους περι ιωαννου τι εξεληλυθατε εις την ερημον θεασασθαι καλαμον υπο ανεμου σαλευομενον
Luke 7:24 And when the messengers of John were departed, he began to speak unto the people concerning John, What went ye out into the wilderness for to see? A reed shaken with the wind?
Luke 7:25 αλλα τι εξεληλυθατε ιδειν ανθρωπον εν μαλακοις ιματιοις ημφιεσμενον ιδου οι εν ιματισμω ενδοξω και τρυφη υπαρχοντες εν τοις βασιλειοις εισιν
Luke 7:25 But what went ye out for to see? A man clothed in soft raiment? Behold, they which are gorgeously apparelled, and live delicately, are in kings' courts.
Luke 7:26 αλλα τι εξεληλυθατε ιδειν προφητην ναι λεγω υμιν και περισσοτερον προφητου
Luke 7:26 But what went ye out for to see? A prophet? Yea, I say unto you, and much more than a prophet.
Luke 7:27 ουτος εστιν περι ου γεγραπται ιδου εγω αποστελλω τον αγγελον μου προ προσωπου σου ος κατασκευασει την οδον σου εμπροσθεν σου
Luke 7:27 This is he, of whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger before thy face, which shall prepare thy way before thee.
Luke 7:28 λεγω γαρ υμιν μειζων εν γεννητοις γυναικων προφητης ιωαννου του βαπτιστου ουδεις εστιν ο δε μικροτερος εν τη βασιλεια του θεου μειζων αυτου εστιν
Luke 7:28 For I say unto you, Among those that are born of women there is not a greater prophet than John the Baptist: but he that is least in the kingdom of God is greater than he.
Luke 7:29 και πας ο λαος ακουσας και οι τελωναι εδικαιωσαν τον θεον βαπτισθεντες το βαπτισμα ιωαννου
Luke 7:29 And all the people that heard him, and the publicans, justified God, being baptized with the baptism of John.
Luke 7:30 οι δε φαρισαιοι και οι νομικοι την βουλην του θεου ηθετησαν εις εαυτους μη βαπτισθεντες υπ αυτου
Luke 7:30 But the Pharisees and lawyers rejected the counsel of God against themselves, being not baptized of him.
Luke 7:31 ειπεν δε ο κυριος τινι ουν ομοιωσω τους ανθρωπους της γενεας ταυτης και τινι εισιν ομοιοι
Luke 7:31 And the Lord said, Whereunto then shall I liken the men of this generation? and to what are they like?
Luke 7:32 ομοιοι εισιν παιδιοις τοις εν αγορα καθημενοις και προσφωνουσιν αλληλοις και λεγουσιν ηυλησαμεν υμιν και ουκ ωρχησασθε εθρηνησαμεν υμιν και ουκ εκλαυσατε
Luke 7:32 They are like unto children sitting in the marketplace, and calling one to another, and saying, We have piped unto you, and ye have not danced; we have mourned to you, and ye have not wept.
Luke 7:33 εληλυθεν γαρ ιωαννης ο βαπτιστης μητε αρτον εσθιων μητε οινον πινων και λεγετε δαιμονιον εχει
Luke 7:33 For John the Baptist came neither eating bread nor drinking wine; and ye say, He hath a devil.
Luke 7:34 εληλυθεν ο υιος του ανθρωπου εσθιων και πινων και λεγετε ιδου ανθρωπος φαγος και οινοποτης τελωνων φιλος και αμαρτωλων
Luke 7:34 The Son of man is come eating and drinking; and ye say, Behold a gluttonous man, and a winebibber, a friend of publicans and sinners!
Luke 7:35 και εδικαιωθη η σοφια απο των τεκνων αυτης παντων
Luke 7:35 But wisdom is justified of all her children.
Luke 7:36 ηρωτα δε τις αυτον των φαρισαιων ινα φαγη μετ αυτου και εισελθων εις την οικιαν του φαρισαιου ανεκλιθη
Luke 7:36 And one of the Pharisees desired him that he would eat with him. And he went into the Pharisee's house, and sat down to meat.
Luke 7:37 και ιδου γυνη εν τη πολει ητις ην αμαρτωλος επιγνουσα οτι ανακειται εν τη οικια του φαρισαιου κομισασα αλαβαστρον μυρου
Luke 7:37 And, behold, a woman in the city, which was a sinner, when she knew that Jesus sat at meat in the Pharisee's house, brought an alabaster box of ointment,
Luke 7:38 και στασα παρα τους ποδας αυτου οπισω κλαιουσα ηρξατο βρεχειν τους ποδας αυτου τοις δακρυσιν και ταις θριξιν της κεφαλης αυτης εξεμασσεν και κατεφιλει τους ποδας αυτου και ηλειφεν τω μυρω
Luke 7:38 And stood at his feet behind him weeping, and began to wash his feet with tears, and did wipe them with the hairs of her head, and kissed his feet, and anointed them with the ointment.
Luke 7:39 ιδων δε ο φαρισαιος ο καλεσας αυτον ειπεν εν εαυτω λεγων ουτος ει ην προφητης εγινωσκεν αν τις και ποταπη η γυνη ητις απτεται αυτου οτι αμαρτωλος εστιν
Luke 7:39 Now when the Pharisee which had bidden him saw it, he spake within himself, saying, This man, if he were a prophet, would have known who and what manner of woman this is that toucheth him: for she is a sinner.
Luke 7:40 και αποκριθεις ο ιησους ειπεν προς αυτον σιμων εχω σοι τι ειπειν ο δε φησιν διδασκαλε ειπε
Luke 7:40 And Jesus answering said unto him, Simon, I have somewhat to say unto thee. And he saith, Master, say on.
Luke 7:41 δυο χρεωφειλεται ησαν δανειστη τινι ο εις ωφειλεν δηναρια πεντακοσια ο δε ετερος πεντηκοντα
Luke 7:41 There was a certain creditor which had two debtors: the one owed five hundred pence, and the other fifty.
Luke 7:42 μη εχοντων δε αυτων αποδουναι αμφοτεροις εχαρισατο τις ουν αυτων ειπε πλειον αυτον αγαπησει
Luke 7:42 And when they had nothing to pay, he frankly forgave them both. Tell me therefore, which of them will love him most?
Luke 7:43 αποκριθεις δε ο σιμων ειπεν υπολαμβανω οτι ω το πλειον εχαρισατο ο δε ειπεν αυτω ορθως εκρινας
Luke 7:43 Simon answered and said, I suppose that he, to whom he forgave most. And he said unto him, Thou hast rightly judged.
Luke 7:44 και στραφεις προς την γυναικα τω σιμωνι εφη βλεπεις ταυτην την γυναικα εισηλθον σου εις την οικιαν υδωρ επι τους ποδας μου ουκ εδωκας αυτη δε τοις δακρυσιν εβρεξεν μου τους ποδας και ταις θριξιν της κεφαλης αυτης εξεμαξεν
Luke 7:44 And he turned to the woman, and said unto Simon, Seest thou this woman? I entered into thine house, thou gavest me no water for my feet: but she hath washed my feet with tears, and wiped them with the hairs of her head.
Luke 7:45 φιλημα μοι ουκ εδωκας αυτη δε αφ ης εισηλθον ου διελιπεν καταφιλουσα μου τους ποδας
Luke 7:45 Thou gavest me no kiss: but this woman since the time I came in hath not ceased to kiss my feet.
Luke 7:46 ελαιω την κεφαλην μου ουκ ηλειψας αυτη δε μυρω ηλειψεν μου τους ποδας
Luke 7:46 My head with oil thou didst not anoint: but this woman hath anointed my feet with ointment.
Luke 7:47 ου χαριν λεγω σοι αφεωνται αι αμαρτιαι αυτης αι πολλαι οτι ηγαπησεν πολυ ω δε ολιγον αφιεται ολιγον αγαπα
Luke 7:47 Wherefore I say unto thee, Her sins, which are many, are forgiven; for she loved much: but to whom little is forgiven, the same loveth little.
Luke 7:48 ειπεν δε αυτη αφεωνται σου αι αμαρτιαι
Luke 7:48 And he said unto her, Thy sins are forgiven.
Luke 7:49 και ηρξαντο οι συνανακειμενοι λεγειν εν εαυτοις τις ουτος εστιν ος και αμαρτιας αφιησιν
Luke 7:49 And they that sat at meat with him began to say within themselves, Who is this that forgiveth sins also?
Luke 7:50 ειπεν δε προς την γυναικα η πιστις σου σεσωκεν σε πορευου εις ειρηνην
Luke 7:50 And he said to the woman, Thy faith hath saved thee; go in peace.
Luke 8:1 και εγενετο εν τω καθεξης και αυτος διωδευεν κατα πολιν και κωμην κηρυσσων και ευαγγελιζομενος την βασιλειαν του θεου και οι δωδεκα συν αυτω
Luke 8:1 And it came to pass afterward, that he went throughout every city and village, preaching and shewing the glad tidings of the kingdom of God: and the twelve were with him,
Luke 8:2 και γυναικες τινες αι ησαν τεθεραπευμεναι απο πνευματων πονηρων και ασθενειων μαρια η καλουμενη μαγδαληνη αφ ης δαιμονια επτα εξεληλυθει
Luke 8:2 And certain women, which had been healed of evil spirits and infirmities, Mary called Magdalene, out of whom went seven devils,
Luke 8:3 και ιωαννα γυνη χουζα επιτροπου ηρωδου και σουσαννα και ετεραι πολλαι αιτινες διηκονουν αυτω απο των υπαρχοντων αυταις
Luke 8:3 And Joanna the wife of Chuza Herod's steward, and Susanna, and many others, which ministered unto him of their substance.
Luke 8:4 συνιοντος δε οχλου πολλου και των κατα πολιν επιπορευομενων προς αυτον ειπεν δια παραβολης
Luke 8:4 And when much people were gathered together, and were come to him out of every city, he spake by a parable:
Luke 8:5 εξηλθεν ο σπειρων του σπειραι τον σπορον αυτου και εν τω σπειρειν αυτον ο μεν επεσεν παρα την οδον και κατεπατηθη και τα πετεινα του ουρανου κατεφαγεν αυτο
Luke 8:5 A sower went out to sow his seed: and as he sowed, some fell by the way side; and it was trodden down, and the fowls of the air devoured it.
Luke 8:6 και ετερον επεσεν επι την πετραν και φυεν εξηρανθη δια το μη εχειν ικμαδα
Luke 8:6 And some fell upon a rock; and as soon as it was sprung up, it withered away, because it lacked moisture.
Luke 8:7 και ετερον επεσεν εν μεσω των ακανθων και συμφυεισαι αι ακανθαι απεπνιξαν αυτο
Luke 8:7 And some fell among thorns; and the thorns sprang up with it, and choked it.
Luke 8:8 και ετερον επεσεν επι την γην την αγαθην και φυεν εποιησεν καρπον εκατονταπλασιονα ταυτα λεγων εφωνει ο εχων ωτα ακουειν ακουετω
Luke 8:8 And other fell on good ground, and sprang up, and bare fruit an hundredfold. And when he had said these things, he cried, He that hath ears to hear, let him hear.
Luke 8:9 επηρωτων δε αυτον οι μαθηται αυτου λεγοντες τις ειη η παραβολη αυτη
Luke 8:9 And his disciples asked him, saying, What might this parable be?
Luke 8:10 ο δε ειπεν υμιν δεδοται γνωναι τα μυστηρια της βασιλειας του θεου τοις δε λοιποις εν παραβολαις ινα βλεποντες μη βλεπωσιν και ακουοντες μη συνιωσιν
Luke 8:10 And he said, Unto you it is given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God: but to others in parables; that seeing they might not see, and hearing they might not understand.
Luke 8:11 εστιν δε αυτη η παραβολη ο σπορος εστιν ο λογος του θεου
Luke 8:11 Now the parable is this: The seed is the word of God.
Luke 8:12 οι δε παρα την οδον εισιν οι ακουοντες ειτα ερχεται ο διαβολος και αιρει τον λογον απο της καρδιας αυτων ινα μη πιστευσαντες σωθωσιν
Luke 8:12 Those by the way side are they that hear; then cometh the devil, and taketh away the word out of their hearts, lest they should believe and be saved.
Luke 8:13 οι δε επι της πετρας οι οταν ακουσωσιν μετα χαρας δεχονται τον λογον και ουτοι ριζαν ουκ εχουσιν οι προς καιρον πιστευουσιν και εν καιρω πειρασμου αφιστανται
Luke 8:13 They on the rock are they, which, when they hear, receive the word with joy; and these have no root, which for a while believe, and in time of temptation fall away.
Luke 8:14 το δε εις τας ακανθας πεσον ουτοι εισιν οι ακουσαντες και υπο μεριμνων και πλουτου και ηδονων του βιου πορευομενοι συμπνιγονται και ου τελεσφορουσιν
Luke 8:14 And that which fell among thorns are they, which, when they have heard, go forth, and are choked with cares and riches and pleasures of this life, and bring no fruit to perfection.
Luke 8:15 το δε εν τη καλη γη ουτοι εισιν οιτινες εν καρδια καλη και αγαθη ακουσαντες τον λογον κατεχουσιν και καρποφορουσιν εν υπομονη
Luke 8:15 But that on the good ground are they, which in an honest and good heart, having heard the word, keep it, and bring forth fruit with patience.
Luke 8:16 ουδεις δε λυχνον αψας καλυπτει αυτον σκευει η υποκατω κλινης τιθησιν αλλ επι λυχνιας επιτιθησιν ινα οι εισπορευομενοι βλεπωσιν το φως
Luke 8:16 No man, when he hath lighted a candle, covereth it with a vessel, or putteth it under a bed; but setteth it on a candlestick, that they which enter in may see the light.
Luke 8:17 ου γαρ εστιν κρυπτον ο ου φανερον γενησεται ουδε αποκρυφον ο ου γνωσθησεται και εις φανερον ελθη
Luke 8:17 For nothing is secret, that shall not be made manifest; neither any thing hid, that shall not be known and come abroad.
Luke 8:18 βλεπετε ουν πως ακουετε ος γαρ αν εχη δοθησεται αυτω και ος αν μη εχη και ο δοκει εχειν αρθησεται απ αυτου
Luke 8:18 Take heed therefore how ye hear: for whosoever hath, to him shall be given; and whosoever hath not, from him shall be taken even that which he seemeth to have.
Luke 8:19 παρεγενοντο δε προς αυτον η μητηρ και οι αδελφοι αυτου και ουκ ηδυναντο συντυχειν αυτω δια τον οχλον
Luke 8:19 Then came to him his mother and his brethren, and could not come at him for the press.
Luke 8:20 και απηγγελη αυτω λεγοντων η μητηρ σου και οι αδελφοι σου εστηκασιν εξω ιδειν σε θελοντες
Luke 8:20 And it was told him by certain which said, Thy mother and thy brethren stand without, desiring to see thee.
Luke 8:21 ο δε αποκριθεις ειπεν προς αυτους μητηρ μου και αδελφοι μου ουτοι εισιν οι τον λογον του θεου ακουοντες και ποιουντες αυτον
Luke 8:21 And he answered and said unto them, My mother and my brethren are these which hear the word of God, and do it.
Luke 8:22 και εγενετο εν μια των ημερων και αυτος ενεβη εις πλοιον και οι μαθηται αυτου και ειπεν προς αυτους διελθωμεν εις το περαν της λιμνης και ανηχθησαν
Luke 8:22 Now it came to pass on a certain day, that he went into a ship with his disciples: and he said unto them, Let us go over unto the other side of the lake. And they launched forth.
Luke 8:23 πλεοντων δε αυτων αφυπνωσεν και κατεβη λαιλαψ ανεμου εις την λιμνην και συνεπληρουντο και εκινδυνευον
Luke 8:23 But as they sailed he fell asleep: and there came down a storm of wind on the lake; and they were filled with water, and were in jeopardy.
Luke 8:24 προσελθοντες δε διηγειραν αυτον λεγοντες επιστατα επιστατα απολλυμεθα ο δε εγερθεις επετιμησεν τω ανεμω και τω κλυδωνι του υδατος και επαυσαντο και εγενετο γαληνη
Luke 8:24 And they came to him, and awoke him, saying, Master, master, we perish. Then he arose, and rebuked the wind and the raging of the water: and they ceased, and there was a calm.
Luke 8:25 ειπεν δε αυτοις που εστιν η πιστις υμων φοβηθεντες δε εθαυμασαν λεγοντες προς αλληλους τις αρα ουτος εστιν οτι και τοις ανεμοις επιτασσει και τω υδατι και υπακουουσιν αυτω
Luke 8:25 And he said unto them, Where is your faith? And they being afraid wondered, saying one to another, What manner of man is this! for he commandeth even the winds and water, and they obey him.
Luke 8:26 και κατεπλευσαν εις την χωραν των γαδαρηνων ητις εστιν αντιπεραν της γαλιλαιας
Luke 8:26 And they arrived at the country of the Gadarenes, which is over against Galilee.
Luke 8:27 εξελθοντι δε αυτω επι την γην υπηντησεν αυτω ανηρ τις εκ της πολεως ος ειχεν δαιμονια εκ χρονων ικανων και ιματιον ουκ ενεδιδυσκετο και εν οικια ουκ εμενεν αλλ εν τοις μνημασιν
Luke 8:27 And when he went forth to land, there met him out of the city a certain man, which had devils long time, and ware no clothes, neither abode in any house, but in the tombs.
Luke 8:28 ιδων δε τον ιησουν και ανακραξας προσεπεσεν αυτω και φωνη μεγαλη ειπεν τι εμοι και σοι ιησου υιε του θεου του υψιστου δεομαι σου μη με βασανισης
Luke 8:28 When he saw Jesus, he cried out, and fell down before him, and with a loud voice said, What have I to do with thee, Jesus, thou Son of God most high? I beseech thee, torment me not.
Luke 8:29 παρηγγελλεν γαρ τω πνευματι τω ακαθαρτω εξελθειν απο του ανθρωπου πολλοις γαρ χρονοις συνηρπακει αυτον και εδεσμειτο αλυσεσιν και πεδαις φυλασσομενος και διαρρησσων τα δεσμα ηλαυνετο υπο του δαιμονος εις τας ερημους
Luke 8:29 (For he had commanded the unclean spirit to come out of the man. For oftentimes it had caught him: and he was kept bound with chains and in fetters; and he brake the bands, and was driven of the devil into the wilderness.)
Luke 8:30 επηρωτησεν δε αυτον ο ιησους λεγων τι σοι εστιν ονομα ο δε ειπεν λεγεων οτι δαιμονια πολλα εισηλθεν εις αυτον
Luke 8:30 And Jesus asked him, saying, What is thy name? And he said, Legion: because many devils were entered into him.
Luke 8:31 και παρεκαλει αυτον ινα μη επιταξη αυτοις εις την αβυσσον απελθειν
Luke 8:31 And they besought him that he would not command them to go out into the deep.
Luke 8:32 ην δε εκει αγελη χοιρων ικανων βοσκομενων εν τω ορει και παρεκαλουν αυτον ινα επιτρεψη αυτοις εις εκεινους εισελθειν και επετρεψεν αυτοις
Luke 8:32 And there was there an herd of many swine feeding on the mountain: and they besought him that he would suffer them to enter into them. And he suffered them.
Luke 8:33 εξελθοντα δε τα δαιμονια απο του ανθρωπου εισηλθεν εις τους χοιρους και ωρμησεν η αγελη κατα του κρημνου εις την λιμνην και απεπνιγη
Luke 8:33 Then went the devils out of the man, and entered into the swine: and the herd ran violently down a steep place into the lake, and were choked.
Luke 8:34 ιδοντες δε οι βοσκοντες το γεγενημενον εφυγον και απελθοντες απηγγειλαν εις την πολιν και εις τους αγρους
Luke 8:34 When they that fed them saw what was done, they fled, and went and told it in the city and in the country.
Luke 8:35 εξηλθον δε ιδειν το γεγονος και ηλθον προς τον ιησουν και ευρον καθημενον τον ανθρωπον αφ ου τα δαιμονια εξεληλυθει ιματισμενον και σωφρονουντα παρα τους ποδας του ιησου και εφοβηθησαν
Luke 8:35 Then they went out to see what was done; and came to Jesus, and found the man, out of whom the devils were departed, sitting at the feet of Jesus, clothed, and in his right mind: and they were afraid.
Luke 8:36 απηγγειλαν δε αυτοις και οι ιδοντες πως εσωθη ο δαιμονισθεις
Luke 8:36 They also which saw it told them by what means he that was possessed of the devils was healed.
Luke 8:37 και ηρωτησαν αυτον απαν το πληθος της περιχωρου των γαδαρηνων απελθειν απ αυτων οτι φοβω μεγαλω συνειχοντο αυτος δε εμβας εις το πλοιον υπεστρεψεν
Luke 8:37 Then the whole multitude of the country of the Gadarenes round about besought him to depart from them; for they were taken with great fear: and he went up into the ship, and returned back again.
Luke 8:38 εδεετο δε αυτου ο ανηρ αφ ου εξεληλυθει τα δαιμονια ειναι συν αυτω απελυσεν δε αυτον ο ιησους λεγων
Luke 8:38 Now the man out of whom the devils were departed besought him that he might be with him: but Jesus sent him away, saying,
Luke 8:39 υποστρεφε εις τον οικον σου και διηγου οσα εποιησεν σοι ο θεος και απηλθεν καθ ολην την πολιν κηρυσσων οσα εποιησεν αυτω ο ιησους
Luke 8:39 Return to thine own house, and shew how great things God hath done unto thee. And he went his way, and published throughout the whole city how great things Jesus had done unto him.
Luke 8:40 εγενετο δε εν τω υποστρεψαι τον ιησουν απεδεξατο αυτον ο οχλος ησαν γαρ παντες προσδοκωντες αυτον
Luke 8:40 And it came to pass, that, when Jesus was returned, the people gladly received him: for they were all waiting for him.
Luke 8:41 και ιδου ηλθεν ανηρ ω ονομα ιαειρος και αυτος αρχων της συναγωγης υπηρχεν και πεσων παρα τους ποδας του ιησου παρεκαλει αυτον εισελθειν εις τον οικον αυτου
Luke 8:41 And, behold, there came a man named Jairus, and he was a ruler of the synagogue: and he fell down at Jesus' feet, and besought him that he would come into his house:
Luke 8:42 οτι θυγατηρ μονογενης ην αυτω ως ετων δωδεκα και αυτη απεθνησκεν εν δε τω υπαγειν αυτον οι οχλοι συνεπνιγον αυτον
Luke 8:42 For he had one only daughter, about twelve years of age, and she lay a dying. But as he went the people thronged him.
Luke 8:43 και γυνη ουσα εν ρυσει αιματος απο ετων δωδεκα ητις εις ιατρους προσαναλωσασα ολον τον βιον ουκ ισχυσεν υπ ουδενος θεραπευθηναι
Luke 8:43 And a woman having an issue of blood twelve years, which had spent all her living upon physicians, neither could be healed of any,
Luke 8:44 προσελθουσα οπισθεν ηψατο του κρασπεδου του ιματιου αυτου και παραχρημα εστη η ρυσις του αιματος αυτης
Luke 8:44 Came behind him, and touched the border of his garment: and immediately her issue of blood stanched.
Luke 8:45 και ειπεν ο ιησους τις ο αψαμενος μου αρνουμενων δε παντων ειπεν ο πετρος και οι μετ αυτου επιστατα οι οχλοι συνεχουσιν σε και αποθλιβουσιν και λεγεις τις ο αψαμενος μου
Luke 8:45 And Jesus said, Who touched me? When all denied, Peter and they that were with him said, Master, the multitude throng thee and press thee, and sayest thou, Who touched me?
Luke 8:46 ο δε ιησους ειπεν ηψατο μου τις εγω γαρ εγνων δυναμιν εξελθουσαν απ εμου
Luke 8:46 And Jesus said, Somebody hath touched me: for I perceive that virtue is gone out of me.
Luke 8:47 ιδουσα δε η γυνη οτι ουκ ελαθεν τρεμουσα ηλθεν και προσπεσουσα αυτω δι ην αιτιαν ηψατο αυτου απηγγειλεν αυτω ενωπιον παντος του λαου και ως ιαθη παραχρημα
Luke 8:47 And when the woman saw that she was not hid, she came trembling, and falling down before him, she declared unto him before all the people for what cause she had touched him, and how she was healed immediately.
Luke 8:48 ο δε ειπεν αυτη θαρσει θυγατερ η πιστις σου σεσωκεν σε πορευου εις ειρηνην
Luke 8:48 And he said unto her, Daughter, be of good comfort: thy faith hath made thee whole; go in peace.
Luke 8:49 ετι αυτου λαλουντος ερχεται τις παρα του αρχισυναγωγου λεγων αυτω οτι τεθνηκεν η θυγατηρ σου μη σκυλλε τον διδασκαλον
Luke 8:49 While he yet spake, there cometh one from the ruler of the synagogue's house, saying to him, Thy daughter is dead; trouble not the Master.
Luke 8:50 ο δε ιησους ακουσας απεκριθη αυτω λεγων μη φοβου μονον πιστευε και σωθησεται
Luke 8:50 But when Jesus heard it, he answered him, saying, Fear not: believe only, and she shall be made whole.
Luke 8:51 εισελθων δε εις την οικιαν ουκ αφηκεν εισελθειν ουδενα ει μη πετρον και ιακωβον και ιωαννην και τον πατερα της παιδος και την μητερα
Luke 8:51 And when he came into the house, he suffered no man to go in, save Peter, and James, and John, and the father and the mother of the maiden.
Luke 8:52 εκλαιον δε παντες και εκοπτοντο αυτην ο δε ειπεν μη κλαιετε ουκ απεθανεν αλλα καθευδει
Luke 8:52 And all wept, and bewailed her: but he said, Weep not; she is not dead, but sleepeth.
Luke 8:53 και κατεγελων αυτου ειδοτες οτι απεθανεν
Luke 8:53 And they laughed him to scorn, knowing that she was dead.
Luke 8:54 αυτος δε εκβαλων εξω παντας και κρατησας της χειρος αυτης εφωνησεν λεγων η παις εγειρου
Luke 8:54 And he put them all out, and took her by the hand, and called, saying, Maid, arise.
Luke 8:55 και επεστρεψεν το πνευμα αυτης και ανεστη παραχρημα και διεταξεν αυτη δοθηναι φαγειν
Luke 8:55 And her spirit came again, and she arose straightway: and he commanded to give her meat.
Luke 8:56 και εξεστησαν οι γονεις αυτης ο δε παρηγγειλεν αυτοις μηδενι ειπειν το γεγονος
Luke 8:56 And her parents were astonished: but he charged them that they should tell no man what was done.
Luke 9:1 συγκαλεσαμενος δε τους δωδεκα μαθητας αυτου εδωκεν αυτοις δυναμιν και εξουσιαν επι παντα τα δαιμονια και νοσους θεραπευειν
Luke 9:1 Then he called his twelve disciples together, and gave them power and authority over all devils, and to cure diseases.
Luke 9:2 και απεστειλεν αυτους κηρυσσειν την βασιλειαν του θεου και ιασθαι τους ασθενουντας
Luke 9:2 And he sent them to preach the kingdom of God, and to heal the sick.
Luke 9:3 και ειπεν προς αυτους μηδεν αιρετε εις την οδον μητε ραβδους μητε πηραν μητε αρτον μητε αργυριον μητε ανα δυο χιτωνας εχειν
Luke 9:3 And he said unto them, Take nothing for your journey, neither staves, nor scrip, neither bread, neither money; neither have two coats apiece.
Luke 9:4 και εις ην αν οικιαν εισελθητε εκει μενετε και εκειθεν εξερχεσθε
Luke 9:4 And whatsoever house ye enter into, there abide, and thence depart.
Luke 9:5 και οσοι αν μη δεξωνται υμας εξερχομενοι απο της πολεως εκεινης και τον κονιορτον απο των ποδων υμων αποτιναξατε εις μαρτυριον επ αυτους
Luke 9:5 And whosoever will not receive you, when ye go out of that city, shake off the very dust from your feet for a testimony against them.
Luke 9:6 εξερχομενοι δε διηρχοντο κατα τας κωμας ευαγγελιζομενοι και θεραπευοντες πανταχου
Luke 9:6 And they departed, and went through the towns, preaching the gospel, and healing every where.
Luke 9:7 ηκουσεν δε ηρωδης ο τετραρχης τα γινομενα υπ αυτου παντα και διηπορει δια το λεγεσθαι υπο τινων οτι ιωαννης εγηγερται εκ νεκρων
Luke 9:7 Now Herod the tetrarch heard of all that was done by him: and he was perplexed, because that it was said of some, that John was risen from the dead;
Luke 9:8 υπο τινων δε οτι ηλιας εφανη αλλων δε οτι προφητης εις των αρχαιων ανεστη
Luke 9:8 And of some, that Elias had appeared; and of others, that one of the old prophets was risen again.
Luke 9:9 και ειπεν ο ηρωδης ιωαννην εγω απεκεφαλισα τις δε εστιν ουτος περι ου εγω ακουω τοιαυτα και εζητει ιδειν αυτον
Luke 9:9 And Herod said, John have I beheaded: but who is this, of whom I hear such things? And he desired to see him.
Luke 9:10 και υποστρεψαντες οι αποστολοι διηγησαντο αυτω οσα εποιησαν και παραλαβων αυτους υπεχωρησεν κατ ιδιαν εις τοπον ερημον πολεως καλουμενης βηθσαιδα
Luke 9:10 And the apostles, when they were returned, told him all that they had done. And he took them, and went aside privately into a desert place belonging to the city called Bethsaida.
Luke 9:11 οι δε οχλοι γνοντες ηκολουθησαν αυτω και δεξαμενος αυτους ελαλει αυτοις περι της βασιλειας του θεου και τους χρειαν εχοντας θεραπειας ιατο
Luke 9:11 And the people, when they knew it, followed him: and he received them, and spake unto them of the kingdom of God, and healed them that had need of healing.
Luke 9:12 η δε ημερα ηρξατο κλινειν προσελθοντες δε οι δωδεκα ειπον αυτω απολυσον τον οχλον ινα απελθοντες εις τας κυκλω κωμας και τους αγρους καταλυσωσιν και ευρωσιν επισιτισμον οτι ωδε εν ερημω τοπω εσμεν
Luke 9:12 And when the day began to wear away, then came the twelve, and said unto him, Send the multitude away, that they may go into the towns and country round about, and lodge, and get victuals: for we are here in a desert place.
Luke 9:13 ειπεν δε προς αυτους δοτε αυτοις υμεις φαγειν οι δε ειπον ουκ εισιν ημιν πλειον η πεντε αρτοι και δυο ιχθυες ει μητι πορευθεντες ημεις αγορασωμεν εις παντα τον λαον τουτον βρωματα
Luke 9:13 But he said unto them, Give ye them to eat. And they said, We have no more but five loaves and two fishes; except we should go and buy meat for all this people.
Luke 9:14 ησαν γαρ ωσει ανδρες πεντακισχιλιοι ειπεν δε προς τους μαθητας αυτου κατακλινατε αυτους κλισιας ανα πεντηκοντα
Luke 9:14 For they were about five thousand men. And he said to his disciples, Make them sit down by fifties in a company.
Luke 9:15 και εποιησαν ουτως και ανεκλιναν απαντας
Luke 9:15 And they did so, and made them all sit down.
Luke 9:16 λαβων δε τους πεντε αρτους και τους δυο ιχθυας αναβλεψας εις τον ουρανον ευλογησεν αυτους και κατεκλασεν και εδιδου τοις μαθηταις παρατιθεναι τω οχλω
Luke 9:16 Then he took the five loaves and the two fishes, and looking up to heaven, he blessed them, and brake, and gave to the disciples to set before the multitude.
Luke 9:17 και εφαγον και εχορτασθησαν παντες και ηρθη το περισσευσαν αυτοις κλασματων κοφινοι δωδεκα
Luke 9:17 And they did eat, and were all filled: and there was taken up of fragments that remained to them twelve baskets.
Luke 9:18 και εγενετο εν τω ειναι αυτον προσευχομενον καταμονας συνησαν αυτω οι μαθηται και επηρωτησεν αυτους λεγων τινα με λεγουσιν οι οχλοι ειναι
Luke 9:18 And it came to pass, as he was alone praying, his disciples were with him: and he asked them, saying, Whom say the people that I am?
Luke 9:19 οι δε αποκριθεντες ειπον ιωαννην τον βαπτιστην αλλοι δε ηλιαν αλλοι δε οτι προφητης τις των αρχαιων ανεστη
Luke 9:19 They answering said, John the Baptist; but some say, Elias; and others say, that one of the old prophets is risen again.
Luke 9:20 ειπεν δε αυτοις υμεις δε τινα με λεγετε ειναι αποκριθεις δε ο πετρος ειπεν τον χριστον του θεου
Luke 9:20 He said unto them, But whom say ye that I am? Peter answering said, The Christ of God.
Luke 9:21 ο δε επιτιμησας αυτοις παρηγγειλεν μηδενι ειπειν τουτο
Luke 9:21 And he straitly charged them, and commanded them to tell no man that thing;
Luke 9:22 ειπων οτι δει τον υιον του ανθρωπου πολλα παθειν και αποδοκιμασθηναι απο των πρεσβυτερων και αρχιερεων και γραμματεων και αποκτανθηναι και τη τριτη ημερα εγερθηναι
Luke 9:22 Saying, The Son of man must suffer many things, and be rejected of the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be slain, and be raised the third day.
Luke 9:23 ελεγεν δε προς παντας ει τις θελει οπισω μου ελθειν απαρνησασθω εαυτον και αρατω τον σταυρον αυτου καθ ημεραν και ακολουθειτω μοι
Luke 9:23 And he said to them all, If any man will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross daily, and follow me.
Luke 9:24 ος γαρ αν θελη την ψυχην αυτου σωσαι απολεσει αυτην ος δ αν απολεση την ψυχην αυτου ενεκεν εμου ουτος σωσει αυτην
Luke 9:24 For whosoever will save his life shall lose it: but whosoever will lose his life for my sake, the same shall save it.
Luke 9:25 τι γαρ ωφελειται ανθρωπος κερδησας τον κοσμον ολον εαυτον δε απολεσας η ζημιωθεις
Luke 9:25 For what is a man advantaged, if he gain the whole world, and lose himself, or be cast away?
Luke 9:26 ος γαρ αν επαισχυνθη με και τους εμους λογους τουτον ο υιος του ανθρωπου επαισχυνθησεται οταν ελθη εν τη δοξη αυτου και του πατρος και των αγιων αγγελων
Luke 9:26 For whosoever shall be ashamed of me and of my words, of him shall the Son of man be ashamed, when he shall come in his own glory, and in his Father's, and of the holy angels.
Luke 9:27 λεγω δε υμιν αληθως εισιν τινες των ωδε εστηκοτων οι ου μη γευσονται θανατου εως αν ιδωσιν την βασιλειαν του θεου
Luke 9:27 But I tell you of a truth, there be some standing here, which shall not taste of death, till they see the kingdom of God.
Luke 9:28 εγενετο δε μετα τους λογους τουτους ωσει ημεραι οκτω και παραλαβων τον πετρον και ιωαννην και ιακωβον ανεβη εις το ορος προσευξασθαι
Luke 9:28 And it came to pass about an eight days after these sayings, he took Peter and John and James, and went up into a mountain to pray.
Luke 9:29 και εγενετο εν τω προσευχεσθαι αυτον το ειδος του προσωπου αυτου ετερον και ο ιματισμος αυτου λευκος εξαστραπτων
Luke 9:29 And as he prayed, the fashion of his countenance was altered, and his raiment was white and glistering.
Luke 9:30 και ιδου ανδρες δυο συνελαλουν αυτω οιτινες ησαν μωσης και ηλιας
Luke 9:30 And, behold, there talked with him two men, which were Moses and Elias:
Luke 9:31 οι οφθεντες εν δοξη ελεγον την εξοδον αυτου ην εμελλεν πληρουν εν ιερουσαλημ
Luke 9:31 Who appeared in glory, and spake of his decease which he should accomplish at Jerusalem.
Luke 9:32 ο δε πετρος και οι συν αυτω ησαν βεβαρημενοι υπνω διαγρηγορησαντες δε ειδον την δοξαν αυτου και τους δυο ανδρας τους συνεστωτας αυτω
Luke 9:32 But Peter and they that were with him were heavy with sleep: and when they were awake, they saw his glory, and the two men that stood with him.
Luke 9:33 και εγενετο εν τω διαχωριζεσθαι αυτους απ αυτου ειπεν ο πετρος προς τον ιησουν επιστατα καλον εστιν ημας ωδε ειναι και ποιησωμεν σκηνας τρεις μιαν σοι και μωσει μιαν και μιαν ηλια μη ειδως ο λεγει
Luke 9:33 And it came to pass, as they departed from him, Peter said unto Jesus, Master, it is good for us to be here: and let us make three tabernacles; one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elias: not knowing what he said.
Luke 9:34 ταυτα δε αυτου λεγοντος εγενετο νεφελη και επεσκιασεν αυτους εφοβηθησαν δε εν τω εκεινους εισελθειν εις την νεφελην
Luke 9:34 While he thus spake, there came a cloud, and overshadowed them: and they feared as they entered into the cloud.
Luke 9:35 και φωνη εγενετο εκ της νεφελης λεγουσα ουτος εστιν ο υιος μου ο αγαπητος αυτου ακουετε
Luke 9:35 And there came a voice out of the cloud, saying, This is my beloved Son: hear him.
Luke 9:36 και εν τω γενεσθαι την φωνην ευρεθη ο ιησους μονος και αυτοι εσιγησαν και ουδενι απηγγειλαν εν εκειναις ταις ημεραις ουδεν ων εωρακασιν
Luke 9:36 And when the voice was past, Jesus was found alone. And they kept it close, and told no man in those days any of those things which they had seen.
Luke 9:37 εγενετο δε εν τη εξης ημερα κατελθοντων αυτων απο του ορους συνηντησεν αυτω οχλος πολυς
Luke 9:37 And it came to pass, that on the next day, when they were come down from the hill, much people met him.
Luke 9:38 και ιδου ανηρ απο του οχλου ανεβοησεν λεγων διδασκαλε δεομαι σου επιβλεψον επι τον υιον μου οτι μονογενης εστιν μοι
Luke 9:38 And, behold, a man of the company cried out, saying, Master, I beseech thee, look upon my son: for he is mine only child.
Luke 9:39 και ιδου πνευμα λαμβανει αυτον και εξαιφνης κραζει και σπαρασσει αυτον μετα αφρου και μογις αποχωρει απ αυτου συντριβον αυτον
Luke 9:39 And, lo, a spirit taketh him, and he suddenly crieth out; and it teareth him that he foameth again, and bruising him hardly departeth from him.
Luke 9:40 και εδεηθην των μαθητων σου ινα εκβαλλωσιν αυτο και ουκ ηδυνηθησαν
Luke 9:40 And I besought thy disciples to cast him out; and they could not.
Luke 9:41 αποκριθεις δε ο ιησους ειπεν ω γενεα απιστος και διεστραμμενη εως ποτε εσομαι προς υμας και ανεξομαι υμων προσαγαγε ωδε τον υιον σου
Luke 9:41 And Jesus answering said, O faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you, and suffer you? Bring thy son hither.
Luke 9:42 ετι δε προσερχομενου αυτου ερρηξεν αυτον το δαιμονιον και συνεσπαραξεν επετιμησεν δε ο ιησους τω πνευματι τω ακαθαρτω και ιασατο τον παιδα και απεδωκεν αυτον τω πατρι αυτου
Luke 9:42 And as he was yet a coming, the devil threw him down, and tare him. And Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit, and healed the child, and delivered him again to his father.
Luke 9:43 εξεπλησσοντο δε παντες επι τη μεγαλειοτητι του θεου παντων δε θαυμαζοντων επι πασιν οις εποιησεν ο ιησους ειπεν προς τους μαθητας αυτου
Luke 9:43 And they were all amazed at the mighty power of God. But while they wondered every one at all things which Jesus did, he said unto his disciples,
Luke 9:44 θεσθε υμεις εις τα ωτα υμων τους λογους τουτους ο γαρ υιος του ανθρωπου μελλει παραδιδοσθαι εις χειρας ανθρωπων
Luke 9:44 Let these sayings sink down into your ears: for the Son of man shall be delivered into the hands of men.
Luke 9:45 οι δε ηγνοουν το ρημα τουτο και ην παρακεκαλυμμενον απ αυτων ινα μη αισθωνται αυτο και εφοβουντο ερωτησαι αυτον περι του ρηματος τουτου
Luke 9:45 But they understood not this saying, and it was hid from them, that they perceived it not: and they feared to ask him of that saying.
Luke 9:46 εισηλθεν δε διαλογισμος εν αυτοις το τις αν ειη μειζων αυτων
Luke 9:46 Then there arose a reasoning among them, which of them should be greatest.
Luke 9:47 ο δε ιησους ιδων τον διαλογισμον της καρδιας αυτων επιλαβομενος παιδιου εστησεν αυτο παρ εαυτω
Luke 9:47 And Jesus, perceiving the thought of their heart, took a child, and set him by him,
Luke 9:48 και ειπεν αυτοις ος εαν δεξηται τουτο το παιδιον επι τω ονοματι μου εμε δεχεται και ος εαν εμε δεξηται δεχεται τον αποστειλαντα με ο γαρ μικροτερος εν πασιν υμιν υπαρχων ουτος εσται μεγας
Luke 9:48 And said unto them, Whosoever shall receive this child in my name receiveth me: and whosoever shall receive me receiveth him that sent me: for he that is least among you all, the same shall be great.
Luke 9:49 αποκριθεις δε ο ιωαννης ειπεν επιστατα ειδομεν τινα επι τω ονοματι σου εκβαλλοντα τα δαιμονια και εκωλυσαμεν αυτον οτι ουκ ακολουθει μεθ ημων
Luke 9:49 And John answered and said, Master, we saw one casting out devils in thy name; and we forbad him, because he followeth not with us.
Luke 9:50 και ειπεν προς αυτον ο ιησους μη κωλυετε ος γαρ ουκ εστιν καθ ημων υπερ ημων εστιν
Luke 9:50 And Jesus said unto him, Forbid him not: for he that is not against us is for us.
Luke 9:51 εγενετο δε εν τω συμπληρουσθαι τας ημερας της αναληψεως αυτου και αυτος το προσωπον αυτου εστηριξεν του πορευεσθαι εις ιερουσαλημ
Luke 9:51 And it came to pass, when the time was come that he should be received up, he stedfastly set his face to go to Jerusalem,
Luke 9:52 και απεστειλεν αγγελους προ προσωπου αυτου και πορευθεντες εισηλθον εις κωμην σαμαρειτων ωστε ετοιμασαι αυτω
Luke 9:52 And sent messengers before his face: and they went, and entered into a village of the Samaritans, to make ready for him.
Luke 9:53 και ουκ εδεξαντο αυτον οτι το προσωπον αυτου ην πορευομενον εις ιερουσαλημ
Luke 9:53 And they did not receive him, because his face was as though he would go to Jerusalem.
Luke 9:54 ιδοντες δε οι μαθηται αυτου ιακωβος και ιωαννης ειπον κυριε θελεις ειπωμεν πυρ καταβηναι απο του ουρανου και αναλωσαι αυτους ως και ηλιας εποιησεν
Luke 9:54 And when his disciples James and John saw this, they said, Lord, wilt thou that we command fire to come down from heaven, and consume them, even as Elias did?
Luke 9:55 στραφεις δε επετιμησεν αυτοις και ειπεν ουκ οιδατε οιου πνευματος εστε υμεις
Luke 9:55 But he turned, and rebuked them, and said, Ye know not what manner of spirit ye are of.
Luke 9:56 ο γαρ υιος του ανθρωπου ουκ ηλθεν ψυχας ανθρωπων απολεσαι αλλα σωσαι και επορευθησαν εις ετεραν κωμην
Luke 9:56 For the Son of man is not come to destroy men's lives, but to save them. And they went to another village.
Luke 9:57 εγενετο δε πορευομενων αυτων εν τη οδω ειπεν τις προς αυτον ακολουθησω σοι οπου αν απερχη κυριε
Luke 9:57 And it came to pass, that, as they went in the way, a certain man said unto him, Lord, I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest.
Luke 9:58 και ειπεν αυτω ο ιησους αι αλωπεκες φωλεους εχουσιν και τα πετεινα του ουρανου κατασκηνωσεις ο δε υιος του ανθρωπου ουκ εχει που την κεφαλην κλινη
Luke 9:58 And Jesus said unto him, Foxes have holes, and birds of the air have nests; but the Son of man hath not where to lay his head.
Luke 9:59 ειπεν δε προς ετερον ακολουθει μοι ο δε ειπεν κυριε επιτρεψον μοι απελθοντι πρωτον θαψαι τον πατερα μου
Luke 9:59 And he said unto another, Follow me. But he said, Lord, suffer me first to go and bury my father.
Luke 9:60 ειπεν δε αυτω ο ιησους αφες τους νεκρους θαψαι τους εαυτων νεκρους συ δε απελθων διαγγελλε την βασιλειαν του θεου
Luke 9:60 Jesus said unto him, Let the dead bury their dead: but go thou and preach the kingdom of God.
Luke 9:61 ειπεν δε και ετερος ακολουθησω σοι κυριε πρωτον δε επιτρεψον μοι αποταξασθαι τοις εις τον οικον μου
Luke 9:61 And another also said, Lord, I will follow thee; but let me first go bid them farewell, which are at home at my house.
Luke 9:62 ειπεν δε προς αυτον ο ιησους ουδεις επιβαλων την χειρα αυτου επ αροτρον και βλεπων εις τα οπισω ευθετος εστιν εις την βασιλειαν του θεου
Luke 9:62 And Jesus said unto him, No man, having put his hand to the plough, and looking back, is fit for the kingdom of God.
Luke 10:1 μετα δε ταυτα ανεδειξεν ο κυριος και ετερους εβδομηκοντα και απεστειλεν αυτους ανα δυο προ προσωπου αυτου εις πασαν πολιν και τοπον ου εμελλεν αυτος ερχεσθαι
Luke 10:1 After these things the LORD appointed other seventy also, and sent them two and two before his face into every city and place, whither he himself would come.
Luke 10:2 ελεγεν ουν προς αυτους ο μεν θερισμος πολυς οι δε εργαται ολιγοι δεηθητε ουν του κυριου του θερισμου οπως εκβαλλη εργατας εις τον θερισμον αυτου
Luke 10:2 Therefore said he unto them, The harvest truly is great, but the labourers are few: pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest, that he would send forth labourers into his harvest.
Luke 10:3 υπαγετε ιδου εγω αποστελλω υμας ως αρνας εν μεσω λυκων
Luke 10:3 Go your ways: behold, I send you forth as lambs among wolves.
Luke 10:4 μη βασταζετε βαλαντιον μη πηραν μηδε υποδηματα και μηδενα κατα την οδον ασπασησθε
Luke 10:4 Carry neither purse, nor scrip, nor shoes: and salute no man by the way.
Luke 10:5 εις ην δ αν οικιαν εισερχησθε πρωτον λεγετε ειρηνη τω οικω τουτω
Luke 10:5 And into whatsoever house ye enter, first say, Peace be to this house.
Luke 10:6 και εαν μεν η εκει υιος ειρηνης επαναπαυσεται επ αυτον η ειρηνη υμων ει δε μηγε εφ υμας ανακαμψει
Luke 10:6 And if the son of peace be there, your peace shall rest upon it: if not, it shall turn to you again.
Luke 10:7 εν αυτη δε τη οικια μενετε εσθιοντες και πινοντες τα παρ αυτων αξιος γαρ ο εργατης του μισθου αυτου εστιν μη μεταβαινετε εξ οικιας εις οικιαν
Luke 10:7 And in the same house remain, eating and drinking such things as they give: for the labourer is worthy of his hire. Go not from house to house.
Luke 10:8 και εις ην δ αν πολιν εισερχησθε και δεχωνται υμας εσθιετε τα παρατιθεμενα υμιν
Luke 10:8 And into whatsoever city ye enter, and they receive you, eat such things as are set before you:
Luke 10:9 και θεραπευετε τους εν αυτη ασθενεις και λεγετε αυτοις ηγγικεν εφ υμας η βασιλεια του θεου
Luke 10:9 And heal the sick that are therein, and say unto them, The kingdom of God is come nigh unto you.
Luke 10:10 εις ην δ αν πολιν εισερχησθε και μη δεχωνται υμας εξελθοντες εις τας πλατειας αυτης ειπατε
Luke 10:10 But into whatsoever city ye enter, and they receive you not, go your ways out into the streets of the same, and say,
Luke 10:11 και τον κονιορτον τον κολληθεντα ημιν εκ της πολεως υμων απομασσομεθα υμιν πλην τουτο γινωσκετε οτι ηγγικεν εφ υμας η βασιλεια του θεου
Luke 10:11 Even the very dust of your city, which cleaveth on us, we do wipe off against you: notwithstanding be ye sure of this, that the kingdom of God is come nigh unto you.
Luke 10:12 λεγω δε υμιν οτι σοδομοις εν τη ημερα εκεινη ανεκτοτερον εσται η τη πολει εκεινη
Luke 10:12 But I say unto you, that it shall be more tolerable in that day for Sodom, than for that city.
Luke 10:13 ουαι σοι χωραζιν ουαι σοι βηθσαιδα οτι ει εν τυρω και σιδωνι εγενοντο αι δυναμεις αι γενομεναι εν υμιν παλαι αν εν σακκω και σποδω καθημεναι μετενοησαν
Luke 10:13 Woe unto thee, Chorazin! woe unto thee, Bethsaida! for if the mighty works had been done in Tyre and Sidon, which have been done in you, they had a great while ago repented, sitting in sackcloth and ashes.
Luke 10:14 πλην τυρω και σιδωνι ανεκτοτερον εσται εν τη κρισει η υμιν
Luke 10:14 But it shall be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon at the judgment, than for you.
Luke 10:15 και συ καπερναουμ η εως του ουρανου υψωθεισα εως αδου καταβιβασθηση
Luke 10:15 And thou, Capernaum, which art exalted to heaven, shalt be thrust down to hell.
Luke 10:16 ο ακουων υμων εμου ακουει και ο αθετων υμας εμε αθετει ο δε εμε αθετων αθετει τον αποστειλαντα με
Luke 10:16 He that heareth you heareth me; and he that despiseth you despiseth me; and he that despiseth me despiseth him that sent me.
Luke 10:17 υπεστρεψαν δε οι εβδομηκοντα μετα χαρας λεγοντες κυριε και τα δαιμονια υποτασσεται ημιν εν τω ονοματι σου
Luke 10:17 And the seventy returned again with joy, saying, Lord, even the devils are subject unto us through thy name.
Luke 10:18 ειπεν δε αυτοις εθεωρουν τον σαταναν ως αστραπην εκ του ουρανου πεσοντα
Luke 10:18 And he said unto them, I beheld Satan as lightning fall from heaven.
Luke 10:19 ιδου διδωμι υμιν την εξουσιαν του πατειν επανω οφεων και σκορπιων και επι πασαν την δυναμιν του εχθρου και ουδεν υμας ου μη αδικηση
Luke 10:19 Behold, I give unto you power to tread on serpents and scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy: and nothing shall by any means hurt you.
Luke 10:20 πλην εν τουτω μη χαιρετε οτι τα πνευματα υμιν υποτασσεται χαιρετε δε μαλλον οτι τα ονοματα υμων εγραφη εν τοις ουρανοις
Luke 10:20 Notwithstanding in this rejoice not, that the spirits are subject unto you; but rather rejoice, because your names are written in heaven.
Luke 10:21 εν αυτη τη ωρα ηγαλλιασατο τω πνευματι ο ιησους και ειπεν εξομολογουμαι σοι πατερ κυριε του ουρανου και της γης οτι απεκρυψας ταυτα απο σοφων και συνετων και απεκαλυψας αυτα νηπιοις ναι ο πατηρ οτι ουτως εγενετο ευδοκια εμπροσθεν σου
Luke 10:21 In that hour Jesus rejoiced in spirit, and said, I thank thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent, and hast revealed them unto babes: even so, Father; for so it seemed good in thy sight.
Luke 10:22 και στραφεις προς τους μαθητας ειπεν παντα παρεδοθη μοι υπο του πατρος μου και ουδεις γινωσκει τις εστιν ο υιος ει μη ο πατηρ και τις εστιν ο πατηρ ει μη ο υιος και ω εαν βουληται ο υιος αποκαλυψαι
Luke 10:22 All things are delivered to me of my Father: and no man knoweth who the Son is, but the Father; and who the Father is, but the Son, and he to whom the Son will reveal him.
Luke 10:23 και στραφεις προς τους μαθητας κατ ιδιαν ειπεν μακαριοι οι οφθαλμοι οι βλεποντες α βλεπετε
Luke 10:23 And he turned him unto his disciples, and said privately, Blessed are the eyes which see the things that ye see:
Luke 10:24 λεγω γαρ υμιν οτι πολλοι προφηται και βασιλεις ηθελησαν ιδειν α υμεις βλεπετε και ουκ ειδον και ακουσαι α ακουετε και ουκ ηκουσαν
Luke 10:24 For I tell you, that many prophets and kings have desired to see those things which ye see, and have not seen them; and to hear those things which ye hear, and have not heard them.
Luke 10:25 και ιδου νομικος τις ανεστη εκπειραζων αυτον και λεγων διδασκαλε τι ποιησας ζωην αιωνιον κληρονομησω
Luke 10:25 And, behold, a certain lawyer stood up, and tempted him, saying, Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?
Luke 10:26 ο δε ειπεν προς αυτον εν τω νομω τι γεγραπται πως αναγινωσκεις
Luke 10:26 He said unto him, What is written in the law? how readest thou?
Luke 10:27 ο δε αποκριθεις ειπεν αγαπησεις κυριον τον θεον σου εξ ολης της καρδιας σου και εξ ολης της ψυχης σου και εξ ολης της ισχυος σου και εξ ολης της διανοιας σου και τον πλησιον σου ως σεαυτον
Luke 10:27 And he answering said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind; and thy neighbour as thyself.
Luke 10:28 ειπεν δε αυτω ορθως απεκριθης τουτο ποιει και ζηση
Luke 10:28 And he said unto him, Thou hast answered right: this do, and thou shalt live.
Luke 10:29 ο δε θελων δικαιουν εαυτον ειπεν προς τον ιησουν και τις εστιν μου πλησιον
Luke 10:29 But he, willing to justify himself, said unto Jesus, And who is my neighbour?
Luke 10:30 υπολαβων δε ο ιησους ειπεν ανθρωπος τις κατεβαινεν απο ιερουσαλημ εις ιεριχω και λησταις περιεπεσεν οι και εκδυσαντες αυτον και πληγας επιθεντες απηλθον αφεντες ημιθανη τυγχανοντα
Luke 10:30 And Jesus answering said, A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell among thieves, which stripped him of his raiment, and wounded him, and departed, leaving him half dead.
Luke 10:31 κατα συγκυριαν δε ιερευς τις κατεβαινεν εν τη οδω εκεινη και ιδων αυτον αντιπαρηλθεν
Luke 10:31 And by chance there came down a certain priest that way: and when he saw him, he passed by on the other side.
Luke 10:32 ομοιως δε και λευιτης γενομενος κατα τον τοπον ελθων και ιδων αντιπαρηλθεν
Luke 10:32 And likewise a Levite, when he was at the place, came and looked on him, and passed by on the other side.
Luke 10:33 σαμαρειτης δε τις οδευων ηλθεν κατ αυτον και ιδων αυτον εσπλαγχνισθη
Luke 10:33 But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came where he was: and when he saw him, he had compassion on him,
Luke 10:34 και προσελθων κατεδησεν τα τραυματα αυτου επιχεων ελαιον και οινον επιβιβασας δε αυτον επι το ιδιον κτηνος ηγαγεν αυτον εις πανδοχειον και επεμεληθη αυτου
Luke 10:34 And went to him, and bound up his wounds, pouring in oil and wine, and set him on his own beast, and brought him to an inn, and took care of him.
Luke 10:35 και επι την αυριον εξελθων εκβαλων δυο δηναρια εδωκεν τω πανδοχει και ειπεν αυτω επιμεληθητι αυτου και ο τι αν προσδαπανησης εγω εν τω επανερχεσθαι με αποδωσω σοι
Luke 10:35 And on the morrow when he departed, he took out two pence, and gave them to the host, and said unto him, Take care of him; and whatsoever thou spendest more, when I come again, I will repay thee.
Luke 10:36 τις ουν τουτων των τριων δοκει σοι πλησιον γεγονεναι του εμπεσοντος εις τους ληστας
Luke 10:36 Which now of these three, thinkest thou, was neighbour unto him that fell among the thieves?
Luke 10:37 ο δε ειπεν ο ποιησας το ελεος μετ αυτου ειπεν ουν αυτω ο ιησους πορευου και συ ποιει ομοιως
Luke 10:37 And he said, He that shewed mercy on him. Then said Jesus unto him, Go, and do thou likewise.
Luke 10:38 εγενετο δε εν τω πορευεσθαι αυτους και αυτος εισηλθεν εις κωμην τινα γυνη δε τις ονοματι μαρθα υπεδεξατο αυτον εις τον οικον αυτης
Luke 10:38 Now it came to pass, as they went, that he entered into a certain village: and a certain woman named Martha received him into her house.
Luke 10:39 και τηδε ην αδελφη καλουμενη μαρια η και παρακαθισασα παρα τους ποδας του ιησου ηκουεν τον λογον αυτου
Luke 10:39 And she had a sister called Mary, which also sat at Jesus' feet, and heard his word.
Luke 10:40 η δε μαρθα περιεσπατο περι πολλην διακονιαν επιστασα δε ειπεν κυριε ου μελει σοι οτι η αδελφη μου μονην με κατελιπεν διακονειν ειπε ουν αυτη ινα μοι συναντιλαβηται
Luke 10:40 But Martha was cumbered about much serving, and came to him, and said, Lord, dost thou not care that my sister hath left me to serve alone? bid her therefore that she help me.
Luke 10:41 αποκριθεις δε ειπεν αυτη ο ιησους μαρθα μαρθα μεριμνας και τυρβαζη περι πολλα
Luke 10:41 And Jesus answered and said unto her, Martha, Martha, thou art careful and troubled about many things:
Luke 10:42 ενος δε εστιν χρεια μαρια δε την αγαθην μεριδα εξελεξατο ητις ουκ αφαιρεθησεται απ αυτης
Luke 10:42 But one thing is needful: and Mary hath chosen that good part, which shall not be taken away from her.
Luke 11:1 και εγενετο εν τω ειναι αυτον εν τοπω τινι προσευχομενον ως επαυσατο ειπεν τις των μαθητων αυτου προς αυτον κυριε διδαξον ημας προσευχεσθαι καθως και ιωαννης εδιδαξεν τους μαθητας αυτου
Luke 11:1 And it came to pass, that, as he was praying in a certain place, when he ceased, one of his disciples said unto him, Lord, teach us to pray, as John also taught his disciples.
Luke 11:2 ειπεν δε αυτοις οταν προσευχησθε λεγετε πατερ ημων ο εν τοις ουρανοις αγιασθητω το ονομα σου ελθετω η βασιλεια σου γενηθητω το θελημα σου ως εν ουρανω και επι της γης
Luke 11:2 And he said unto them, When ye pray, say, Our Father which art in heaven, Hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done, as in heaven, so in earth.
Luke 11:3 τον αρτον ημων τον επιουσιον διδου ημιν το καθ ημεραν
Luke 11:3 Give us day by day our daily bread.
Luke 11:4 και αφες ημιν τας αμαρτιας ημων και γαρ αυτοι αφιεμεν παντι οφειλοντι ημιν και μη εισενεγκης ημας εις πειρασμον αλλα ρυσαι ημας απο του πονηρου
Luke 11:4 And forgive us our sins; for we also forgive every one that is indebted to us. And lead us not into temptation; but deliver us from evil.
Luke 11:5 και ειπεν προς αυτους τις εξ υμων εξει φιλον και πορευσεται προς αυτον μεσονυκτιου και ειπη αυτω φιλε χρησον μοι τρεις αρτους
Luke 11:5 And he said unto them, Which of you shall have a friend, and shall go unto him at midnight, and say unto him, Friend, lend me three loaves;
Luke 11:6 επειδη φιλος μου παρεγενετο εξ οδου προς με και ουκ εχω ο παραθησω αυτω
Luke 11:6 For a friend of mine in his journey is come to me, and I have nothing to set before him?
Luke 11:7 κακεινος εσωθεν αποκριθεις ειπη μη μοι κοπους παρεχε ηδη η θυρα κεκλεισται και τα παιδια μου μετ εμου εις την κοιτην εισιν ου δυναμαι αναστας δουναι σοι
Luke 11:7 And he from within shall answer and say, Trouble me not: the door is now shut, and my children are with me in bed; I cannot rise and give thee.
Luke 11:8 λεγω υμιν ει και ου δωσει αυτω αναστας δια το ειναι αυτου φιλον δια γε την αναιδειαν αυτου εγερθεις δωσει αυτω οσων χρηζει
Luke 11:8 I say unto you, Though he will not rise and give him, because he is his friend, yet because of his importunity he will rise and give him as many as he needeth.
Luke 11:9 καγω υμιν λεγω αιτειτε και δοθησεται υμιν ζητειτε και ευρησετε κρουετε και ανοιγησεται υμιν
Luke 11:9 And I say unto you, Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you.
Luke 11:10 πας γαρ ο αιτων λαμβανει και ο ζητων ευρισκει και τω κρουοντι ανοιγησεται
Luke 11:10 For every one that asketh receiveth; and he that seeketh findeth; and to him that knocketh it shall be opened.
Luke 11:11 τινα δε υμων τον πατερα αιτησει ο υιος αρτον μη λιθον επιδωσει αυτω ει και ιχθυν μη αντι ιχθυος οφιν επιδωσει αυτω
Luke 11:11 If a son shall ask bread of any of you that is a father, will he give him a stone? or if he ask a fish, will he for a fish give him a serpent?
Luke 11:12 η και εαν αιτηση ωον μη επιδωσει αυτω σκορπιον
Luke 11:12 Or if he shall ask an egg, will he offer him a scorpion?
Luke 11:13 ει ουν υμεις πονηροι υπαρχοντες οιδατε αγαθα δοματα διδοναι τοις τεκνοις υμων ποσω μαλλον ο πατηρ ο εξ ουρανου δωσει πνευμα αγιον τοις αιτουσιν αυτον
Luke 11:13 If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children: how much more shall your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him?
Luke 11:14 και ην εκβαλλων δαιμονιον και αυτο ην κωφον εγενετο δε του δαιμονιου εξελθοντος ελαλησεν ο κωφος και εθαυμασαν οι οχλοι
Luke 11:14 And he was casting out a devil, and it was dumb. And it came to pass, when the devil was gone out, the dumb spake; and the people wondered.
Luke 11:15 τινες δε εξ αυτων ειπον εν βεελζεβουλ αρχοντι των δαιμονιων εκβαλλει τα δαιμονια
Luke 11:15 But some of them said, He casteth out devils through Beelzebub the chief of the devils.
Luke 11:16 ετεροι δε πειραζοντες σημειον παρ αυτου εζητουν εξ ουρανου
Luke 11:16 And others, tempting him, sought of him a sign from heaven.
Luke 11:17 αυτος δε ειδως αυτων τα διανοηματα ειπεν αυτοις πασα βασιλεια εφ εαυτην διαμερισθεισα ερημουται και οικος επι οικον πιπτει
Luke 11:17 But he, knowing their thoughts, said unto them, Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation; and a house divided against a house falleth.
Luke 11:18 ει δε και ο σατανας εφ εαυτον διεμερισθη πως σταθησεται η βασιλεια αυτου οτι λεγετε εν βεελζεβουλ εκβαλλειν με τα δαιμονια
Luke 11:18 If Satan also be divided against himself, how shall his kingdom stand? because ye say that I cast out devils through Beelzebub.
Luke 11:19 ει δε εγω εν βεελζεβουλ εκβαλλω τα δαιμονια οι υιοι υμων εν τινι εκβαλλουσιν δια τουτο κριται υμων αυτοι εσονται
Luke 11:19 And if I by Beelzebub cast out devils, by whom do your sons cast them out? therefore shall they be your judges.
Luke 11:20 ει δε εν δακτυλω θεου εκβαλλω τα δαιμονια αρα εφθασεν εφ υμας η βασιλεια του θεου
Luke 11:20 But if I with the finger of God cast out devils, no doubt the kingdom of God is come upon you.
Luke 11:21 οταν ο ισχυρος καθωπλισμενος φυλασση την εαυτου αυλην εν ειρηνη εστιν τα υπαρχοντα αυτου
Luke 11:21 When a strong man armed keepeth his palace, his goods are in peace:
Luke 11:22 επαν δε ο ισχυροτερος αυτου επελθων νικηση αυτον την πανοπλιαν αυτου αιρει εφ η επεποιθει και τα σκυλα αυτου διαδιδωσιν
Luke 11:22 But when a stronger than he shall come upon him, and overcome him, he taketh from him all his armour wherein he trusted, and divideth his spoils.
Luke 11:23 ο μη ων μετ εμου κατ εμου εστιν και ο μη συναγων μετ εμου σκορπιζει
Luke 11:23 He that is not with me is against me: and he that gathereth not with me scattereth.
Luke 11:24 οταν το ακαθαρτον πνευμα εξελθη απο του ανθρωπου διερχεται δι ανυδρων τοπων ζητουν αναπαυσιν και μη ευρισκον λεγει υποστρεψω εις τον οικον μου οθεν εξηλθον
Luke 11:24 When the unclean spirit is gone out of a man, he walketh through dry places, seeking rest; and finding none, he saith, I will return unto my house whence I came out.
Luke 11:25 και ελθον ευρισκει σεσαρωμενον και κεκοσμημενον
Luke 11:25 And when he cometh, he findeth it swept and garnished.
Luke 11:26 τοτε πορευεται και παραλαμβανει επτα ετερα πνευματα πονηροτερα εαυτου και εισελθοντα κατοικει εκει και γινεται τα εσχατα του ανθρωπου εκεινου χειρονα των πρωτων
Luke 11:26 Then goeth he, and taketh to him seven other spirits more wicked than himself; and they enter in, and dwell there: and the last state of that man is worse than the first.
Luke 11:27 εγενετο δε εν τω λεγειν αυτον ταυτα επαρασα τις γυνη φωνην εκ του οχλου ειπεν αυτω μακαρια η κοιλια η βαστασασα σε και μαστοι ους εθηλασας
Luke 11:27 And it came to pass, as he spake these things, a certain woman of the company lifted up her voice, and said unto him, Blessed is the womb that bare thee, and the paps which thou hast sucked.
Luke 11:28 αυτος δε ειπεν μενουνγε μακαριοι οι ακουοντες τον λογον του θεου και φυλασσοντες αυτον
Luke 11:28 But he said, Yea rather, blessed are they that hear the word of God, and keep it.
Luke 11:29 των δε οχλων επαθροιζομενων ηρξατο λεγειν η γενεα αυτη πονηρα εστιν σημειον επιζητει και σημειον ου δοθησεται αυτη ει μη το σημειον ιωνα του προφητου
Luke 11:29 And when the people were gathered thick together, he began to say, This is an evil generation: they seek a sign; and there shall no sign be given it, but the sign of Jonas the prophet.
Luke 11:30 καθως γαρ εγενετο ιωνας σημειον τοις νινευιταις ουτως εσται και ο υιος του ανθρωπου τη γενεα ταυτη
Luke 11:30 For as Jonas was a sign unto the Ninevites, so shall also the Son of man be to this generation.
Luke 11:31 βασιλισσα νοτου εγερθησεται εν τη κρισει μετα των ανδρων της γενεας ταυτης και κατακρινει αυτους οτι ηλθεν εκ των περατων της γης ακουσαι την σοφιαν σολομωντος και ιδου πλειον σολομωντος ωδε
Luke 11:31 The queen of the south shall rise up in the judgment with the men of this generation, and condemn them: for she came from the utmost parts of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon; and, behold, a greater than Solomon is here.
Luke 11:32 ανδρες νινευι αναστησονται εν τη κρισει μετα της γενεας ταυτης και κατακρινουσιν αυτην οτι μετενοησαν εις το κηρυγμα ιωνα και ιδου πλειον ιωνα ωδε
Luke 11:32 The men of Nineve shall rise up in the judgment with this generation, and shall condemn it: for they repented at the preaching of Jonas; and, behold, a greater than Jonas is here.
Luke 11:33 ουδεις δε λυχνον αψας εις κρυπτον τιθησιν ουδε υπο τον μοδιον αλλ επι την λυχνιαν ινα οι εισπορευομενοι το φεγγος βλεπωσιν
Luke 11:33 No man, when he hath lighted a candle, putteth it in a secret place, neither under a bushel, but on a candlestick, that they which come in may see the light.
Luke 11:34 ο λυχνος του σωματος εστιν ο οφθαλμος οταν ουν ο οφθαλμος σου απλους η και ολον το σωμα σου φωτεινον εστιν επαν δε πονηρος η και το σωμα σου σκοτεινον
Luke 11:34 The light of the body is the eye: therefore when thine eye is single, thy whole body also is full of light; but when thine eye is evil, thy body also is full of darkness.
Luke 11:35 σκοπει ουν μη το φως το εν σοι σκοτος εστιν
Luke 11:35 Take heed therefore that the light which is in thee be not darkness.
Luke 11:36 ει ουν το σωμα σου ολον φωτεινον μη εχον τι μερος σκοτεινον εσται φωτεινον ολον ως οταν ο λυχνος τη αστραπη φωτιζη σε
Luke 11:36 If thy whole body therefore be full of light, having no part dark, the whole shall be full of light, as when the bright shining of a candle doth give thee light.
Luke 11:37 εν δε τω λαλησαι ηρωτα αυτον φαρισαιος τις οπως αριστηση παρ αυτω εισελθων δε ανεπεσεν
Luke 11:37 And as he spake, a certain Pharisee besought him to dine with him: and he went in, and sat down to meat.
Luke 11:38 ο δε φαρισαιος ιδων εθαυμασεν οτι ου πρωτον εβαπτισθη προ του αριστου
Luke 11:38 And when the Pharisee saw it, he marvelled that he had not first washed before dinner.
Luke 11:39 ειπεν δε ο κυριος προς αυτον νυν υμεις οι φαρισαιοι το εξωθεν του ποτηριου και του πινακος καθαριζετε το δε εσωθεν υμων γεμει αρπαγης και πονηριας
Luke 11:39 And the Lord said unto him, Now do ye Pharisees make clean the outside of the cup and the platter; but your inward part is full of ravening and wickedness.
Luke 11:40 αφρονες ουχ ο ποιησας το εξωθεν και το εσωθεν εποιησεν
Luke 11:40 Ye fools, did not he that made that which is without make that which is within also?
Luke 11:41 πλην τα ενοντα δοτε ελεημοσυνην και ιδου παντα καθαρα υμιν εστιν
Luke 11:41 But rather give alms of such things as ye have; and, behold, all things are clean unto you.
Luke 11:42 αλλ ουαι υμιν τοις φαρισαιοις οτι αποδεκατουτε το ηδυοσμον και το πηγανον και παν λαχανον και παρερχεσθε την κρισιν και την αγαπην του θεου ταυτα εδει ποιησαι κακεινα μη αφιεναι
Luke 11:42 But woe unto you, Pharisees! for ye tithe mint and rue and all manner of herbs, and pass over judgment and the love of God: these ought ye to have done, and not to leave the other undone.
Luke 11:43 ουαι υμιν τοις φαρισαιοις οτι αγαπατε την πρωτοκαθεδριαν εν ταις συναγωγαις και τους ασπασμους εν ταις αγοραις
Luke 11:43 Woe unto you, Pharisees! for ye love the uppermost seats in the synagogues, and greetings in the markets.
Luke 11:44 ουαι υμιν γραμματεις και φαρισαιοι υποκριται οτι εστε ως τα μνημεια τα αδηλα και οι ανθρωποι οι περιπατουντες επανω ουκ οιδασιν
Luke 11:44 Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye are as graves which appear not, and the men that walk over them are not aware of them.
Luke 11:45 αποκριθεις δε τις των νομικων λεγει αυτω διδασκαλε ταυτα λεγων και ημας υβριζεις
Luke 11:45 Then answered one of the lawyers, and said unto him, Master, thus saying thou reproachest us also.
Luke 11:46 ο δε ειπεν και υμιν τοις νομικοις ουαι οτι φορτιζετε τους ανθρωπους φορτια δυσβαστακτα και αυτοι ενι των δακτυλων υμων ου προσψαυετε τοις φορτιοις
Luke 11:46 And he said, Woe unto you also, ye lawyers! for ye lade men with burdens grievous to be borne, and ye yourselves touch not the burdens with one of your fingers.
Luke 11:47 ουαι υμιν οτι οικοδομειτε τα μνημεια των προφητων οι δε πατερες υμων απεκτειναν αυτους
Luke 11:47 Woe unto you! for ye build the sepulchres of the prophets, and your fathers killed them.
Luke 11:48 αρα μαρτυρειτε και συνευδοκειτε τοις εργοις των πατερων υμων οτι αυτοι μεν απεκτειναν αυτους υμεις δε οικοδομειτε αυτων τα μνημεια
Luke 11:48 Truly ye bear witness that ye allow the deeds of your fathers: for they indeed killed them, and ye build their sepulchres.
Luke 11:49 δια τουτο και η σοφια του θεου ειπεν αποστελω εις αυτους προφητας και αποστολους και εξ αυτων αποκτενουσιν και εκδιωξουσιν
Luke 11:49 Therefore also said the wisdom of God, I will send them prophets and apostles, and some of them they shall slay and persecute:
Luke 11:50 ινα εκζητηθη το αιμα παντων των προφητων το εκχυνομενον απο καταβολης κοσμου απο της γενεας ταυτης
Luke 11:50 That the blood of all the prophets, which was shed from the foundation of the world, may be required of this generation;
Luke 11:51 απο του αιματος αβελ εως του αιματος ζαχαριου του απολομενου μεταξυ του θυσιαστηριου και του οικου ναι λεγω υμιν εκζητηθησεται απο της γενεας ταυτης
Luke 11:51 From the blood of Abel unto the blood of Zacharias which perished between the altar and the temple: verily I say unto you, It shall be required of this generation.
Luke 11:52 ουαι υμιν τοις νομικοις οτι ηρατε την κλειδα της γνωσεως αυτοι ουκ εισηλθετε και τους εισερχομενους εκωλυσατε
Luke 11:52 Woe unto you, lawyers! for ye have taken away the key of knowledge: ye entered not in yourselves, and them that were entering in ye hindered.
Luke 11:53 λεγοντος δε αυτου ταυτα προς αυτους ηρξαντο οι γραμματεις και οι φαρισαιοι δεινως ενεχειν και αποστοματιζειν αυτον περι πλειονων
Luke 11:53 And as he said these things unto them, the scribes and the Pharisees began to urge him vehemently, and to provoke him to speak of many things:
Luke 11:54 ενεδρευοντες αυτον και ζητουντες θηρευσαι τι εκ του στοματος αυτου ινα κατηγορησωσιν αυτου
Luke 11:54 Laying wait for him, and seeking to catch something out of his mouth, that they might accuse him.
Luke 12:1 εν οις επισυναχθεισων των μυριαδων του οχλου ωστε καταπατειν αλληλους ηρξατο λεγειν προς τους μαθητας αυτου πρωτον προσεχετε εαυτοις απο της ζυμης των φαρισαιων ητις εστιν υποκρισις
Luke 12:1 In the mean time, when there were gathered together an innumerable multitude of people, insomuch that they trode one upon another, he began to say unto his disciples first of all, Beware ye of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy.
Luke 12:2 ουδεν δε συγκεκαλυμμενον εστιν ο ουκ αποκαλυφθησεται και κρυπτον ο ου γνωσθησεται
Luke 12:2 For there is nothing covered, that shall not be revealed; neither hid, that shall not be known.
Luke 12:3 ανθ ων οσα εν τη σκοτια ειπατε εν τω φωτι ακουσθησεται και ο προς το ους ελαλησατε εν τοις ταμειοις κηρυχθησεται επι των δωματων
Luke 12:3 Therefore whatsoever ye have spoken in darkness shall be heard in the light; and that which ye have spoken in the ear in closets shall be proclaimed upon the housetops.
Luke 12:4 λεγω δε υμιν τοις φιλοις μου μη φοβηθητε απο των αποκτεινοντων το σωμα και μετα ταυτα μη εχοντων περισσοτερον τι ποιησαι
Luke 12:4 And I say unto you my friends, Be not afraid of them that kill the body, and after that have no more that they can do.
Luke 12:5 υποδειξω δε υμιν τινα φοβηθητε φοβηθητε τον μετα το αποκτειναι εξουσιαν εχοντα εμβαλειν εις την γεενναν ναι λεγω υμιν τουτον φοβηθητε
Luke 12:5 But I will forewarn you whom ye shall fear: Fear him, which after he hath killed hath power to cast into hell; yea, I say unto you, Fear him.
Luke 12:6 ουχι πεντε στρουθια πωλειται ασσαριων δυο και εν εξ αυτων ουκ εστιν επιλελησμενον ενωπιον του θεου
Luke 12:6 Are not five sparrows sold for two farthings, and not one of them is forgotten before God?
Luke 12:7 αλλα και αι τριχες της κεφαλης υμων πασαι ηριθμηνται μη ουν φοβεισθε πολλων στρουθιων διαφερετε
Luke 12:7 But even the very hairs of your head are all numbered. Fear not therefore: ye are of more value than many sparrows.
Luke 12:8 λεγω δε υμιν πας ος αν ομολογηση εν εμοι εμπροσθεν των ανθρωπων και ο υιος του ανθρωπου ομολογησει εν αυτω εμπροσθεν των αγγελων του θεου
Luke 12:8 Also I say unto you, Whosoever shall confess me before men, him shall the Son of man also confess before the angels of God:
Luke 12:9 ο δε αρνησαμενος με ενωπιον των ανθρωπων απαρνηθησεται ενωπιον των αγγελων του θεου
Luke 12:9 But he that denieth me before men shall be denied before the angels of God.
Luke 12:10 και πας ος ερει λογον εις τον υιον του ανθρωπου αφεθησεται αυτω τω δε εις το αγιον πνευμα βλασφημησαντι ουκ αφεθησεται
Luke 12:10 And whosoever shall speak a word against the Son of man, it shall be forgiven him: but unto him that blasphemeth against the Holy Ghost it shall not be forgiven.
Luke 12:11 οταν δε προσφερωσιν υμας επι τας συναγωγας και τας αρχας και τας εξουσιας μη μεριμνατε πως η τι απολογησησθε η τι ειπητε
Luke 12:11 And when they bring you unto the synagogues, and unto magistrates, and powers, take ye no thought how or what thing ye shall answer, or what ye shall say:
Luke 12:12 το γαρ αγιον πνευμα διδαξει υμας εν αυτη τη ωρα α δει ειπειν
Luke 12:12 For the Holy Ghost shall teach you in the same hour what ye ought to say.
Luke 12:13 ειπεν δε τις αυτω εκ του οχλου διδασκαλε ειπε τω αδελφω μου μερισασθαι μετ εμου την κληρονομιαν
Luke 12:13 And one of the company said unto him, Master, speak to my brother, that he divide the inheritance with me.
Luke 12:14 ο δε ειπεν αυτω ανθρωπε τις με κατεστησεν δικαστην η μεριστην εφ υμας
Luke 12:14 And he said unto him, Man, who made me a judge or a divider over you?
Luke 12:15 ειπεν δε προς αυτους ορατε και φυλασσεσθε απο της πλεονεξιας οτι ουκ εν τω περισσευειν τινι η ζωη αυτου εστιν εκ των υπαρχοντων αυτου
Luke 12:15 And he said unto them, Take heed, and beware of covetousness: for a man's life consisteth not in the abundance of the things which he possesseth.
Luke 12:16 ειπεν δε παραβολην προς αυτους λεγων ανθρωπου τινος πλουσιου ευφορησεν η χωρα
Luke 12:16 And he spake a parable unto them, saying, The ground of a certain rich man brought forth plentifully:
Luke 12:17 και διελογιζετο εν εαυτω λεγων τι ποιησω οτι ουκ εχω που συναξω τους καρπους μου
Luke 12:17 And he thought within himself, saying, What shall I do, because I have no room where to bestow my fruits?
Luke 12:18 και ειπεν τουτο ποιησω καθελω μου τας αποθηκας και μειζονας οικοδομησω και συναξω εκει παντα τα γενηματα μου και τα αγαθα μου
Luke 12:18 And he said, This will I do: I will pull down my barns, and build greater; and there will I bestow all my fruits and my goods.
Luke 12:19 και ερω τη ψυχη μου ψυχη εχεις πολλα αγαθα κειμενα εις ετη πολλα αναπαυου φαγε πιε ευφραινου
Luke 12:19 And I will say to my soul, Soul, thou hast much goods laid up for many years; take thine ease, eat, drink, and be merry.
Luke 12:20 ειπεν δε αυτω ο θεος αφρων ταυτη τη νυκτι την ψυχην σου απαιτουσιν απο σου α δε ητοιμασας τινι εσται
Luke 12:20 But God said unto him, Thou fool, this night thy soul shall be required of thee: then whose shall those things be, which thou hast provided?
Luke 12:21 ουτως ο θησαυριζων εαυτω και μη εις θεον πλουτων
Luke 12:21 So is he that layeth up treasure for himself, and is not rich toward God.
Luke 12:22 ειπεν δε προς τους μαθητας αυτου δια τουτο υμιν λεγω μη μεριμνατε τη ψυχη υμων τι φαγητε μηδε τω σωματι τι ενδυσησθε
Luke 12:22 And he said unto his disciples, Therefore I say unto you, Take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat; neither for the body, what ye shall put on.
Luke 12:23 η ψυχη πλειον εστιν της τροφης και το σωμα του ενδυματος
Luke 12:23 The life is more than meat, and the body is more than raiment.
Luke 12:24 κατανοησατε τους κορακας οτι ου σπειρουσιν ουδε θεριζουσιν οις ουκ εστιν ταμειον ουδε αποθηκη και ο θεος τρεφει αυτους ποσω μαλλον υμεις διαφερετε των πετεινων
Luke 12:24 Consider the ravens: for they neither sow nor reap; which neither have storehouse nor barn; and God feedeth them: how much more are ye better than the fowls?
Luke 12:25 τις δε εξ υμων μεριμνων δυναται προσθειναι επι την ηλικιαν αυτου πηχυν ενα
Luke 12:25 And which of you with taking thought can add to his stature one cubit?
Luke 12:26 ει ουν ουτε ελαχιστον δυνασθε τι περι των λοιπων μεριμνατε
Luke 12:26 If ye then be not able to do that thing which is least, why take ye thought for the rest?
Luke 12:27 κατανοησατε τα κρινα πως αυξανει ου κοπια ουδε νηθει λεγω δε υμιν ουδε σολομων εν παση τη δοξη αυτου περιεβαλετο ως εν τουτων
Luke 12:27 Consider the lilies how they grow: they toil not, they spin not; and yet I say unto you, that Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these.
Luke 12:28 ει δε τον χορτον εν τω αγρω σημερον οντα και αυριον εις κλιβανον βαλλομενον ο θεος ουτως αμφιεννυσιν ποσω μαλλον υμας ολιγοπιστοι
Luke 12:28 If then God so clothe the grass, which is to day in the field, and to morrow is cast into the oven; how much more will he clothe you, O ye of little faith?
Luke 12:29 και υμεις μη ζητειτε τι φαγητε η τι πιητε και μη μετεωριζεσθε
Luke 12:29 And seek not ye what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink, neither be ye of doubtful mind.
Luke 12:30 ταυτα γαρ παντα τα εθνη του κοσμου επιζητει υμων δε ο πατηρ οιδεν οτι χρηζετε τουτων
Luke 12:30 For all these things do the nations of the world seek after: and your Father knoweth that ye have need of these things.
Luke 12:31 πλην ζητειτε την βασιλειαν του θεου και ταυτα παντα προστεθησεται υμιν
Luke 12:31 But rather seek ye the kingdom of God; and all these things shall be added unto you.
Luke 12:32 μη φοβου το μικρον ποιμνιον οτι ευδοκησεν ο πατηρ υμων δουναι υμιν την βασιλειαν
Luke 12:32 Fear not, little flock; for it is your Father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom.
Luke 12:33 πωλησατε τα υπαρχοντα υμων και δοτε ελεημοσυνην ποιησατε εαυτοις βαλαντια μη παλαιουμενα θησαυρον ανεκλειπτον εν τοις ουρανοις οπου κλεπτης ουκ εγγιζει ουδε σης διαφθειρει
Luke 12:33 Sell that ye have, and give alms; provide yourselves bags which wax not old, a treasure in the heavens that faileth not, where no thief approacheth, neither moth corrupteth.
Luke 12:34 οπου γαρ εστιν ο θησαυρος υμων εκει και η καρδια υμων εσται
Luke 12:34 For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.
Luke 12:35 εστωσαν υμων αι οσφυες περιεζωσμεναι και οι λυχνοι καιομενοι
Luke 12:35 Let your loins be girded about, and your lights burning;
Luke 12:36 και υμεις ομοιοι ανθρωποις προσδεχομενοις τον κυριον εαυτων ποτε αναλυσει εκ των γαμων ινα ελθοντος και κρουσαντος ευθεως ανοιξωσιν αυτω
Luke 12:36 And ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their lord, when he will return from the wedding; that when he cometh and knocketh, they may open unto him immediately.
Luke 12:37 μακαριοι οι δουλοι εκεινοι ους ελθων ο κυριος ευρησει γρηγορουντας αμην λεγω υμιν οτι περιζωσεται και ανακλινει αυτους και παρελθων διακονησει αυτοις
Luke 12:37 Blessed are those servants, whom the lord when he cometh shall find watching: verily I say unto you, that he shall gird himself, and make them to sit down to meat, and will come forth and serve them.
Luke 12:38 και εαν ελθη εν τη δευτερα φυλακη και εν τη τριτη φυλακη ελθη και ευρη ουτως μακαριοι εισιν οι δουλοι εκεινοι
Luke 12:38 And if he shall come in the second watch, or come in the third watch, and find them so, blessed are those servants.
Luke 12:39 τουτο δε γινωσκετε οτι ει ηδει ο οικοδεσποτης ποια ωρα ο κλεπτης ερχεται εγρηγορησεν αν και ουκ αν αφηκεν διορυγηναι τον οικον αυτου
Luke 12:39 And this know, that if the goodman of the house had known what hour the thief would come, he would have watched, and not have suffered his house to be broken through.
Luke 12:40 και υμεις ουν γινεσθε ετοιμοι οτι η ωρα ου δοκειτε ο υιος του ανθρωπου ερχεται
Luke 12:40 Be ye therefore ready also: for the Son of man cometh at an hour when ye think not.
Luke 12:41 ειπεν δε αυτω ο πετρος κυριε προς ημας την παραβολην ταυτην λεγεις η και προς παντας
Luke 12:41 Then Peter said unto him, Lord, speakest thou this parable unto us, or even to all?
Luke 12:42 ειπεν δε ο κυριος τις αρα εστιν ο πιστος οικονομος και φρονιμος ον καταστησει ο κυριος επι της θεραπειας αυτου του διδοναι εν καιρω το σιτομετριον
Luke 12:42 And the Lord said, Who then is that faithful and wise steward, whom his lord shall make ruler over his household, to give them their portion of meat in due season?
Luke 12:43 μακαριος ο δουλος εκεινος ον ελθων ο κυριος αυτου ευρησει ποιουντα ουτως
Luke 12:43 Blessed is that servant, whom his lord when he cometh shall find so doing.
Luke 12:44 αληθως λεγω υμιν οτι επι πασιν τοις υπαρχουσιν αυτου καταστησει αυτον
Luke 12:44 Of a truth I say unto you, that he will make him ruler over all that he hath.
Luke 12:45 εαν δε ειπη ο δουλος εκεινος εν τη καρδια αυτου χρονιζει ο κυριος μου ερχεσθαι και αρξηται τυπτειν τους παιδας και τας παιδισκας εσθιειν τε και πινειν και μεθυσκεσθαι
Luke 12:45 But and if that servant say in his heart, My lord delayeth his coming; and shall begin to beat the menservants and maidens, and to eat and drink, and to be drunken;
Luke 12:46 ηξει ο κυριος του δουλου εκεινου εν ημερα η ου προσδοκα και εν ωρα η ου γινωσκει και διχοτομησει αυτον και το μερος αυτου μετα των απιστων θησει
Luke 12:46 The lord of that servant will come in a day when he looketh not for him, and at an hour when he is not aware, and will cut him in sunder, and will appoint him his portion with the unbelievers.
Luke 12:47 εκεινος δε ο δουλος ο γνους το θελημα του κυριου εαυτου και μη ετοιμασας μηδε ποιησας προς το θελημα αυτου δαρησεται πολλας
Luke 12:47 And that servant, which knew his lord's will, and prepared not himself, neither did according to his will, shall be beaten with many stripes.
Luke 12:48 ο δε μη γνους ποιησας δε αξια πληγων δαρησεται ολιγας παντι δε ω εδοθη πολυ πολυ ζητηθησεται παρ αυτου και ω παρεθεντο πολυ περισσοτερον αιτησουσιν αυτον
Luke 12:48 But he that knew not, and did commit things worthy of stripes, shall be beaten with few stripes. For unto whomsoever much is given, of him shall be much required: and to whom men have committed much, of him they will ask the more.
Luke 12:49 πυρ ηλθον βαλειν εις την γην και τι θελω ει ηδη ανηφθη
Luke 12:49 I am come to send fire on the earth; and what will I, if it be already kindled?
Luke 12:50 βαπτισμα δε εχω βαπτισθηναι και πως συνεχομαι εως ου τελεσθη
Luke 12:50 But I have a baptism to be baptized with; and how am I straitened till it be accomplished!
Luke 12:51 δοκειτε οτι ειρηνην παρεγενομην δουναι εν τη γη ουχι λεγω υμιν αλλ η διαμερισμον
Luke 12:51 Suppose ye that I am come to give peace on earth? I tell you, Nay; but rather division:
Luke 12:52 εσονται γαρ απο του νυν πεντε εν οικω ενι διαμεμερισμενοι τρεις επι δυσιν και δυο επι τρισιν
Luke 12:52 For from henceforth there shall be five in one house divided, three against two, and two against three.
Luke 12:53 διαμερισθησεται πατηρ εφ υιω και υιος επι πατρι μητηρ επι θυγατρι και θυγατηρ επι μητρι πενθερα επι την νυμφην αυτης και νυμφη επι την πενθεραν αυτης
Luke 12:53 The father shall be divided against the son, and the son against the father; the mother against the daughter, and the daughter against the mother; the mother in law against her daughter in law, and the daughter in law against her mother in law.
Luke 12:54 ελεγεν δε και τοις οχλοις οταν ιδητε την νεφελην ανατελλουσαν απο δυσμων ευθεως λεγετε ομβρος ερχεται και γινεται ουτως
Luke 12:54 And he said also to the people, When ye see a cloud rise out of the west, straightway ye say, There cometh a shower; and so it is.
Luke 12:55 και οταν νοτον πνεοντα λεγετε οτι καυσων εσται και γινεται
Luke 12:55 And when ye see the south wind blow, ye say, There will be heat; and it cometh to pass.
Luke 12:56 υποκριται το προσωπον της γης και του ουρανου οιδατε δοκιμαζειν τον δε καιρον τουτον πως ου δοκιμαζετε
Luke 12:56 Ye hypocrites, ye can discern the face of the sky and of the earth; but how is it that ye do not discern this time?
Luke 12:57 τι δε και αφ εαυτων ου κρινετε το δικαιον
Luke 12:57 Yea, and why even of yourselves judge ye not what is right?
Luke 12:58 ως γαρ υπαγεις μετα του αντιδικου σου επ αρχοντα εν τη οδω δος εργασιαν απηλλαχθαι απ αυτου μηποτε κατασυρη σε προς τον κριτην και ο κριτης σε παραδω τω πρακτορι και ο πρακτωρ σε βαλλη εις φυλακην
Luke 12:58 When thou goest with thine adversary to the magistrate, as thou art in the way, give diligence that thou mayest be delivered from him; lest he hale thee to the judge, and the judge deliver thee to the officer, and the officer cast thee into prison.
Luke 12:59 λεγω σοι ου μη εξελθης εκειθεν εως ου και το εσχατον λεπτον αποδως
Luke 12:59 I tell thee, thou shalt not depart thence, till thou hast paid the very last mite.
Luke 13:1 παρησαν δε τινες εν αυτω τω καιρω απαγγελλοντες αυτω περι των γαλιλαιων ων το αιμα πιλατος εμιξεν μετα των θυσιων αυτων
Luke 13:1 There were present at that season some that told him of the Galilaeans, whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifices.
Luke 13:2 και αποκριθεις ο ιησους ειπεν αυτοις δοκειτε οτι οι γαλιλαιοι ουτοι αμαρτωλοι παρα παντας τους γαλιλαιους εγενοντο οτι τοιαυτα πεπονθασιν
Luke 13:2 And Jesus answering said unto them, Suppose ye that these Galilaeans were sinners above all the Galilaeans, because they suffered such things?
Luke 13:3 ουχι λεγω υμιν αλλ εαν μη μετανοητε παντες ωσαυτως απολεισθε
Luke 13:3 I tell you, Nay: but, except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish.
Luke 13:4 η εκεινοι οι δεκα και οκτω εφ ους επεσεν ο πυργος εν τω σιλωαμ και απεκτεινεν αυτους δοκειτε οτι ουτοι οφειλεται εγενοντο παρα παντας ανθρωπους τους κατοικουντας εν ιερουσαλημ
Luke 13:4 Or those eighteen, upon whom the tower in Siloam fell, and slew them, think ye that they were sinners above all men that dwelt in Jerusalem?
Luke 13:5 ουχι λεγω υμιν αλλ εαν μη μετανοητε παντες ομοιως απολεισθε
Luke 13:5 I tell you, Nay: but, except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish.
Luke 13:6 ελεγεν δε ταυτην την παραβολην συκην ειχεν τις εν τω αμπελωνι αυτου πεφυτευμενην και ηλθεν καρπον ζητων εν αυτη και ουχ ευρεν
Luke 13:6 He spake also this parable; A certain man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard; and he came and sought fruit thereon, and found none.
Luke 13:7 ειπεν δε προς τον αμπελουργον ιδου τρια ετη ερχομαι ζητων καρπον εν τη συκη ταυτη και ουχ ευρισκω εκκοψον αυτην ινατι και την γην καταργει
Luke 13:7 Then said he unto the dresser of his vineyard, Behold, these three years I come seeking fruit on this fig tree, and find none: cut it down; why cumbereth it the ground?
Luke 13:8 ο δε αποκριθεις λεγει αυτω κυριε αφες αυτην και τουτο το ετος εως οτου σκαψω περι αυτην και βαλω κοπριαν
Luke 13:8 And he answering said unto him, Lord, let it alone this year also, till I shall dig about it, and dung it:
Luke 13:9 καν μεν ποιηση καρπον ει δε μηγε εις το μελλον εκκοψεις αυτην
Luke 13:9 And if it bear fruit, well: and if not, then after that thou shalt cut it down.
Luke 13:10 ην δε διδασκων εν μια των συναγωγων εν τοις σαββασιν
Luke 13:10 And he was teaching in one of the synagogues on the sabbath.
Luke 13:11 και ιδου γυνη ην πνευμα εχουσα ασθενειας ετη δεκα και οκτω και ην συγκυπτουσα και μη δυναμενη ανακυψαι εις το παντελες
Luke 13:11 And, behold, there was a woman which had a spirit of infirmity eighteen years, and was bowed together, and could in no wise lift up herself.
Luke 13:12 ιδων δε αυτην ο ιησους προσεφωνησεν και ειπεν αυτη γυναι απολελυσαι της ασθενειας σου
Luke 13:12 And when Jesus saw her, he called her to him, and said unto her, Woman, thou art loosed from thine infirmity.
Luke 13:13 και επεθηκεν αυτη τας χειρας και παραχρημα ανωρθωθη και εδοξαζεν τον θεον
Luke 13:13 And he laid his hands on her: and immediately she was made straight, and glorified God.
Luke 13:14 αποκριθεις δε ο αρχισυναγωγος αγανακτων οτι τω σαββατω εθεραπευσεν ο ιησους ελεγεν τω οχλω εξ ημεραι εισιν εν αις δει εργαζεσθαι εν ταυταις ουν ερχομενοι θεραπευεσθε και μη τη ημερα του σαββατου
Luke 13:14 And the ruler of the synagogue answered with indignation, because that Jesus had healed on the sabbath day, and said unto the people, There are six days in which men ought to work: in them therefore come and be healed, and not on the sabbath day.
Luke 13:15 απεκριθη ουν αυτω ο κυριος και ειπεν υποκριτα εκαστος υμων τω σαββατω ου λυει τον βουν αυτου η τον ονον απο της φατνης και απαγαγων ποτιζει
Luke 13:15 The Lord then answered him, and said, Thou hypocrite, doth not each one of you on the sabbath loose his ox or his ass from the stall, and lead him away to watering?
Luke 13:16 ταυτην δε θυγατερα αβρααμ ουσαν ην εδησεν ο σατανας ιδου δεκα και οκτω ετη ουκ εδει λυθηναι απο του δεσμου τουτου τη ημερα του σαββατου
Luke 13:16 And ought not this woman, being a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan hath bound, lo, these eighteen years, be loosed from this bond on the sabbath day?
Luke 13:17 και ταυτα λεγοντος αυτου κατησχυνοντο παντες οι αντικειμενοι αυτω και πας ο οχλος εχαιρεν επι πασιν τοις ενδοξοις τοις γινομενοις υπ αυτου
Luke 13:17 And when he had said these things, all his adversaries were ashamed: and all the people rejoiced for all the glorious things that were done by him.
Luke 13:18 ελεγεν δε τινι ομοια εστιν η βασιλεια του θεου και τινι ομοιωσω αυτην
Luke 13:18 Then said he, Unto what is the kingdom of God like? and whereunto shall I resemble it?
Luke 13:19 ομοια εστιν κοκκω σιναπεως ον λαβων ανθρωπος εβαλεν εις κηπον εαυτου και ηυξησεν και εγενετο εις δενδρον μεγα και τα πετεινα του ουρανου κατεσκηνωσεν εν τοις κλαδοις αυτου
Luke 13:19 It is like a grain of mustard seed, which a man took, and cast into his garden; and it grew, and waxed a great tree; and the fowls of the air lodged in the branches of it.
Luke 13:20 και παλιν ειπεν τινι ομοιωσω την βασιλειαν του θεου
Luke 13:20 And again he said, Whereunto shall I liken the kingdom of God?
Luke 13:21 ομοια εστιν ζυμη ην λαβουσα γυνη ενεκρυψεν εις αλευρου σατα τρια εως ου εζυμωθη ολον
Luke 13:21 It is like leaven, which a woman took and hid in three measures of meal, till the whole was leavened.
Luke 13:22 και διεπορευετο κατα πολεις και κωμας διδασκων και πορειαν ποιουμενος εις ιερουσαλημ
Luke 13:22 And he went through the cities and villages, teaching, and journeying toward Jerusalem.
Luke 13:23 ειπεν δε τις αυτω κυριε ει ολιγοι οι σωζομενοι ο δε ειπεν προς αυτους
Luke 13:23 Then said one unto him, Lord, are there few that be saved? And he said unto them,
Luke 13:24 αγωνιζεσθε εισελθειν δια της στενης πυλης οτι πολλοι λεγω υμιν ζητησουσιν εισελθειν και ουκ ισχυσουσιν
Luke 13:24 Strive to enter in at the strait gate: for many, I say unto you, will seek to enter in, and shall not be able.
Luke 13:25 αφ ου αν εγερθη ο οικοδεσποτης και αποκλειση την θυραν και αρξησθε εξω εσταναι και κρουειν την θυραν λεγοντες κυριε κυριε ανοιξον ημιν και αποκριθεις ερει υμιν ουκ οιδα υμας ποθεν εστε
Luke 13:25 When once the master of the house is risen up, and hath shut to the door, and ye begin to stand without, and to knock at the door, saying, Lord, Lord, open unto us; and he shall answer and say unto you, I know you not whence ye are:
Luke 13:26 τοτε αρξεσθε λεγειν εφαγομεν ενωπιον σου και επιομεν και εν ταις πλατειαις ημων εδιδαξας
Luke 13:26 Then shall ye begin to say, We have eaten and drunk in thy presence, and thou hast taught in our streets.
Luke 13:27 και ερει λεγω υμιν ουκ οιδα υμας ποθεν εστε αποστητε απ εμου παντες οι εργαται της αδικιας
Luke 13:27 But he shall say, I tell you, I know you not whence ye are; depart from me, all ye workers of iniquity.
Luke 13:28 εκει εσται ο κλαυθμος και ο βρυγμος των οδοντων οταν οψησθε αβρααμ και ισαακ και ιακωβ και παντας τους προφητας εν τη βασιλεια του θεου υμας δε εκβαλλομενους εξω
Luke 13:28 There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth, when ye shall see Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, and all the prophets, in the kingdom of God, and you yourselves thrust out.
Luke 13:29 και ηξουσιν απο ανατολων και δυσμων και απο βορρα και νοτου και ανακλιθησονται εν τη βασιλεια του θεου
Luke 13:29 And they shall come from the east, and from the west, and from the north, and from the south, and shall sit down in the kingdom of God.
Luke 13:30 και ιδου εισιν εσχατοι οι εσονται πρωτοι και εισιν πρωτοι οι εσονται εσχατοι
Luke 13:30 And, behold, there are last which shall be first, and there are first which shall be last.
Luke 13:31 εν αυτη τη ημερα προσηλθον τινες φαρισαιοι λεγοντες αυτω εξελθε και πορευου εντευθεν οτι ηρωδης θελει σε αποκτειναι
Luke 13:31 The same day there came certain of the Pharisees, saying unto him, Get thee out, and depart hence: for Herod will kill thee.
Luke 13:32 και ειπεν αυτοις πορευθεντες ειπατε τη αλωπεκι ταυτη ιδου εκβαλλω δαιμονια και ιασεις επιτελω σημερον και αυριον και τη τριτη τελειουμαι
Luke 13:32 And he said unto them, Go ye, and tell that fox, Behold, I cast out devils, and I do cures to day and to morrow, and the third day I shall be perfected.
Luke 13:33 πλην δει με σημερον και αυριον και τη εχομενη πορευεσθαι οτι ουκ ενδεχεται προφητην απολεσθαι εξω ιερουσαλημ
Luke 13:33 Nevertheless I must walk to day, and to morrow, and the day following: for it cannot be that a prophet perish out of Jerusalem.
Luke 13:34 ιερουσαλημ ιερουσαλημ η αποκτεινουσα τους προφητας και λιθοβολουσα τους απεσταλμενους προς αυτην ποσακις ηθελησα επισυναξαι τα τεκνα σου ον τροπον ορνις την εαυτης νοσσιαν υπο τας πτερυγας και ουκ ηθελησατε
Luke 13:34 O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, which killest the prophets, and stonest them that are sent unto thee; how often would I have gathered thy children together, as a hen doth gather her brood under her wings, and ye would not!
Luke 13:35 ιδου αφιεται υμιν ο οικος υμων ερημος αμην δε λεγω υμιν οτι ου μη με ιδητε εως αν ηξη οτε ειπητε ευλογημενος ο ερχομενος εν ονοματι κυριου
Luke 13:35 Behold, your house is left unto you desolate: and verily I say unto you, Ye shall not see me, until the time come when ye shall say, Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord.
Luke 14:1 και εγενετο εν τω ελθειν αυτον εις οικον τινος των αρχοντων των φαρισαιων σαββατω φαγειν αρτον και αυτοι ησαν παρατηρουμενοι αυτον
Luke 14:1 And it came to pass, as he went into the house of one of the chief Pharisees to eat bread on the sabbath day, that they watched him.
Luke 14:2 και ιδου ανθρωπος τις ην υδρωπικος εμπροσθεν αυτου
Luke 14:2 And, behold, there was a certain man before him which had the dropsy.
Luke 14:3 και αποκριθεις ο ιησους ειπεν προς τους νομικους και φαρισαιους λεγων ει εξεστιν τω σαββατω θεραπευειν
Luke 14:3 And Jesus answering spake unto the lawyers and Pharisees, saying, Is it lawful to heal on the sabbath day?
Luke 14:4 οι δε ησυχασαν και επιλαβομενος ιασατο αυτον και απελυσεν
Luke 14:4 And they held their peace. And he took him, and healed him, and let him go;
Luke 14:5 και αποκριθεις προς αυτους ειπεν τινος υμων ονος η βους εις φρεαρ εμπεσειται και ουκ ευθεως ανασπασει αυτον εν τη ημερα του σαββατου
Luke 14:5 And answered them, saying, Which of you shall have an ass or an ox fallen into a pit, and will not straightway pull him out on the sabbath day?
Luke 14:6 και ουκ ισχυσαν ανταποκριθηναι αυτω προς ταυτα
Luke 14:6 And they could not answer him again to these things.
Luke 14:7 ελεγεν δε προς τους κεκλημενους παραβολην επεχων πως τας πρωτοκλισιας εξελεγοντο λεγων προς αυτους
Luke 14:7 And he put forth a parable to those which were bidden, when he marked how they chose out the chief rooms; saying unto them.
Luke 14:8 οταν κληθης υπο τινος εις γαμους μη κατακλιθης εις την πρωτοκλισιαν μηποτε εντιμοτερος σου η κεκλημενος υπ αυτου
Luke 14:8 When thou art bidden of any man to a wedding, sit not down in the highest room; lest a more honourable man than thou be bidden of him;
Luke 14:9 και ελθων ο σε και αυτον καλεσας ερει σοι δος τουτω τοπον και τοτε αρξη μετ αισχυνης τον εσχατον τοπον κατεχειν
Luke 14:9 And he that bade thee and him come and say to thee, Give this man place; and thou begin with shame to take the lowest room.
Luke 14:10 αλλ οταν κληθης πορευθεις αναπεσον εις τον εσχατον τοπον ινα οταν ελθη ο κεκληκως σε ειπη σοι φιλε προσαναβηθι ανωτερον τοτε εσται σοι δοξα ενωπιον των συνανακειμενων σοι
Luke 14:10 But when thou art bidden, go and sit down in the lowest room; that when he that bade thee cometh, he may say unto thee, Friend, go up higher: then shalt thou have worship in the presence of them that sit at meat with thee.
Luke 14:11 οτι πας ο υψων εαυτον ταπεινωθησεται και ο ταπεινων εαυτον υψωθησεται
Luke 14:11 For whosoever exalteth himself shall be abased; and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted.
Luke 14:12 ελεγεν δε και τω κεκληκοτι αυτον οταν ποιης αριστον η δειπνον μη φωνει τους φιλους σου μηδε τους αδελφους σου μηδε τους συγγενεις σου μηδε γειτονας πλουσιους μηποτε και αυτοι σε αντικαλεσωσιν και γενηται σοι ανταποδομα
Luke 14:12 Then said he also to him that bade him, When thou makest a dinner or a supper, call not thy friends, nor thy brethren, neither thy kinsmen, nor thy rich neighbours; lest they also bid thee again, and a recompence be made thee.
Luke 14:13 αλλ οταν ποιης δοχην καλει πτωχους αναπηρους χωλους τυφλους
Luke 14:13 But when thou makest a feast, call the poor, the maimed, the lame, the blind:
Luke 14:14 και μακαριος εση οτι ουκ εχουσιν ανταποδουναι σοι ανταποδοθησεται γαρ σοι εν τη αναστασει των δικαιων
Luke 14:14 And thou shalt be blessed; for they cannot recompense thee: for thou shalt be recompensed at the resurrection of the just.
Luke 14:15 ακουσας δε τις των συνανακειμενων ταυτα ειπεν αυτω μακαριος ος φαγεται αρτον εν τη βασιλεια του θεου
Luke 14:15 And when one of them that sat at meat with him heard these things, he said unto him, Blessed is he that shall eat bread in the kingdom of God.
Luke 14:16 ο δε ειπεν αυτω ανθρωπος τις εποιησεν δειπνον μεγα και εκαλεσεν πολλους
Luke 14:16 Then said he unto him, A certain man made a great supper, and bade many:
Luke 14:17 και απεστειλεν τον δουλον αυτου τη ωρα του δειπνου ειπειν τοις κεκλημενοις ερχεσθε οτι ηδη ετοιμα εστιν παντα
Luke 14:17 And sent his servant at supper time to say to them that were bidden, Come; for all things are now ready.
Luke 14:18 και ηρξαντο απο μιας παραιτεισθαι παντες ο πρωτος ειπεν αυτω αγρον ηγορασα και εχω αναγκην εξελθειν και ιδειν αυτον ερωτω σε εχε με παρητημενον
Luke 14:18 And they all with one consent began to make excuse. The first said unto him, I have bought a piece of ground, and I must needs go and see it: I pray thee have me excused.
Luke 14:19 και ετερος ειπεν ζευγη βοων ηγορασα πεντε και πορευομαι δοκιμασαι αυτα ερωτω σε εχε με παρητημενον
Luke 14:19 And another said, I have bought five yoke of oxen, and I go to prove them: I pray thee have me excused.
Luke 14:20 και ετερος ειπεν γυναικα εγημα και δια τουτο ου δυναμαι ελθειν
Luke 14:20 And another said, I have married a wife, and therefore I cannot come.
Luke 14:21 και παραγενομενος ο δουλος εκεινος απηγγειλεν τω κυριω αυτου ταυτα τοτε οργισθεις ο οικοδεσποτης ειπεν τω δουλω αυτου εξελθε ταχεως εις τας πλατειας και ρυμας της πολεως και τους πτωχους και αναπηρους και χωλους και τυφλους εισαγαγε ωδε
Luke 14:21 So that servant came, and shewed his lord these things. Then the master of the house being angry said to his servant, Go out quickly into the streets and lanes of the city, and bring in hither the poor, and the maimed, and the halt, and the blind.
Luke 14:22 και ειπεν ο δουλος κυριε γεγονεν ως επεταξας και ετι τοπος εστιν
Luke 14:22 And the servant said, Lord, it is done as thou hast commanded, and yet there is room.
Luke 14:23 και ειπεν ο κυριος προς τον δουλον εξελθε εις τας οδους και φραγμους και αναγκασον εισελθειν ινα γεμισθη ο οικος μου
Luke 14:23 And the lord said unto the servant, Go out into the highways and hedges, and compel them to come in, that my house may be filled.
Luke 14:24 λεγω γαρ υμιν οτι ουδεις των ανδρων εκεινων των κεκλημενων γευσεται μου του δειπνου
Luke 14:24 For I say unto you, That none of those men which were bidden shall taste of my supper.
Luke 14:25 συνεπορευοντο δε αυτω οχλοι πολλοι και στραφεις ειπεν προς αυτους
Luke 14:25 And there went great multitudes with him: and he turned, and said unto them,
Luke 14:26 ει τις ερχεται προς με και ου μισει τον πατερα εαυτου και την μητερα και την γυναικα και τα τεκνα και τους αδελφους και τας αδελφας ετι δε και την εαυτου ψυχην ου δυναται μου μαθητης ειναι
Luke 14:26 If any man come to me, and hate not his father, and mother, and wife, and children, and brethren, and sisters, yea, and his own life also, he cannot be my disciple.
Luke 14:27 και οστις ου βασταζει τον σταυρον αυτου και ερχεται οπισω μου ου δυναται μου ειναι μαθητης
Luke 14:27 And whosoever doth not bear his cross, and come after me, cannot be my disciple.
Luke 14:28 τις γαρ εξ υμων θελων πυργον οικοδομησαι ουχι πρωτον καθισας ψηφιζει την δαπανην ει εχει τα προς απαρτισμον
Luke 14:28 For which of you, intending to build a tower, sitteth not down first, and counteth the cost, whether he have sufficient to finish it?
Luke 14:29 ινα μηποτε θεντος αυτου θεμελιον και μη ισχυοντος εκτελεσαι παντες οι θεωρουντες αρξωνται εμπαιζειν αυτω
Luke 14:29 Lest haply, after he hath laid the foundation, and is not able to finish it, all that behold it begin to mock him,
Luke 14:30 λεγοντες οτι ουτος ο ανθρωπος ηρξατο οικοδομειν και ουκ ισχυσεν εκτελεσαι
Luke 14:30 Saying, This man began to build, and was not able to finish.
Luke 14:31 η τις βασιλευς πορευομενος συμβαλειν ετερω βασιλει εις πολεμον ουχι καθισας πρωτον βουλευεται ει δυνατος εστιν εν δεκα χιλιασιν απαντησαι τω μετα εικοσι χιλιαδων ερχομενω επ αυτον
Luke 14:31 Or what king, going to make war against another king, sitteth not down first, and consulteth whether he be able with ten thousand to meet him that cometh against him with twenty thousand?
Luke 14:32 ει δε μηγε ετι αυτου πορρω οντος πρεσβειαν αποστειλας ερωτα τα προς ειρηνην
Luke 14:32 Or else, while the other is yet a great way off, he sendeth an ambassage, and desireth conditions of peace.
Luke 14:33 ουτως ουν πας εξ υμων ος ουκ αποτασσεται πασιν τοις εαυτου υπαρχουσιν ου δυναται μου ειναι μαθητης
Luke 14:33 So likewise, whosoever he be of you that forsaketh not all that he hath, he cannot be my disciple.
Luke 14:34 καλον το αλας εαν δε το αλας μωρανθη εν τινι αρτυθησεται
Luke 14:34 Salt is good: but if the salt have lost his savour, wherewith shall it be seasoned?
Luke 14:35 ουτε εις γην ουτε εις κοπριαν ευθετον εστιν εξω βαλλουσιν αυτο ο εχων ωτα ακουειν ακουετω
Luke 14:35 It is neither fit for the land, nor yet for the dunghill; but men cast it out. He that hath ears to hear, let him hear.
Luke 15:1 ησαν δε εγγιζοντες αυτω παντες οι τελωναι και οι αμαρτωλοι ακουειν αυτου
Luke 15:1 Then drew near unto him all the publicans and sinners for to hear him.
Luke 15:2 και διεγογγυζον οι φαρισαιοι και οι γραμματεις λεγοντες οτι ουτος αμαρτωλους προσδεχεται και συνεσθιει αυτοις
Luke 15:2 And the Pharisees and scribes murmured, saying, This man receiveth sinners, and eateth with them.
Luke 15:3 ειπεν δε προς αυτους την παραβολην ταυτην λεγων
Luke 15:3 And he spake this parable unto them, saying,
Luke 15:4 τις ανθρωπος εξ υμων εχων εκατον προβατα και απολεσας εν εξ αυτων ου καταλειπει τα εννενηκονταεννεα εν τη ερημω και πορευεται επι το απολωλος εως ευρη αυτο
Luke 15:4 What man of you, having an hundred sheep, if he lose one of them, doth not leave the ninety and nine in the wilderness, and go after that which is lost, until he find it?
Luke 15:5 και ευρων επιτιθησιν επι τους ωμους εαυτου χαιρων
Luke 15:5 And when he hath found it, he layeth it on his shoulders, rejoicing.
Luke 15:6 και ελθων εις τον οικον συγκαλει τους φιλους και τους γειτονας λεγων αυτοις συγχαρητε μοι οτι ευρον το προβατον μου το απολωλος
Luke 15:6 And when he cometh home, he calleth together his friends and neighbours, saying unto them, Rejoice with me; for I have found my sheep which was lost.
Luke 15:7 λεγω υμιν οτι ουτως χαρα εσται εν τω ουρανω επι ενι αμαρτωλω μετανοουντι η επι εννενηκονταεννεα δικαιοις οιτινες ου χρειαν εχουσιν μετανοιας
Luke 15:7 I say unto you, that likewise joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repenteth, more than over ninety and nine just persons, which need no repentance.
Luke 15:8 η τις γυνη δραχμας εχουσα δεκα εαν απολεση δραχμην μιαν ουχι απτει λυχνον και σαροι την οικιαν και ζητει επιμελως εως οτου ευρη
Luke 15:8 Either what woman having ten pieces of silver, if she lose one piece, doth not light a candle, and sweep the house, and seek diligently till she find it?
Luke 15:9 και ευρουσα συγκαλειται τας φιλας και τας γειτονας λεγουσα συγχαρητε μοι οτι ευρον την δραχμην ην απωλεσα
Luke 15:9 And when she hath found it, she calleth her friends and her neighbours together, saying, Rejoice with me; for I have found the piece which I had lost.
Luke 15:10 ουτως λεγω υμιν χαρα γινεται ενωπιον των αγγελων του θεου επι ενι αμαρτωλω μετανοουντι
Luke 15:10 Likewise, I say unto you, there is joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner that repenteth.
Luke 15:11 ειπεν δε ανθρωπος τις ειχεν δυο υιους
Luke 15:11 And he said, A certain man had two sons:
Luke 15:12 και ειπεν ο νεωτερος αυτων τω πατρι πατερ δος μοι το επιβαλλον μερος της ουσιας και διειλεν αυτοις τον βιον
Luke 15:12 And the younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the portion of goods that falleth to me. And he divided unto them his living.
Luke 15:13 και μετ ου πολλας ημερας συναγαγων απαντα ο νεωτερος υιος απεδημησεν εις χωραν μακραν και εκει διεσκορπισεν την ουσιαν αυτου ζων ασωτως
Luke 15:13 And not many days after the younger son gathered all together, and took his journey into a far country, and there wasted his substance with riotous living.
Luke 15:14 δαπανησαντος δε αυτου παντα εγενετο λιμος ισχυρος κατα την χωραν εκεινην και αυτος ηρξατο υστερεισθαι
Luke 15:14 And when he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in that land; and he began to be in want.
Luke 15:15 και πορευθεις εκολληθη ενι των πολιτων της χωρας εκεινης και επεμψεν αυτον εις τους αγρους αυτου βοσκειν χοιρους
Luke 15:15 And he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country; and he sent him into his fields to feed swine.
Luke 15:16 και επεθυμει γεμισαι την κοιλιαν αυτου απο των κερατιων ων ησθιον οι χοιροι και ουδεις εδιδου αυτω
Luke 15:16 And he would fain have filled his belly with the husks that the swine did eat: and no man gave unto him.
Luke 15:17 εις εαυτον δε ελθων ειπεν ποσοι μισθιοι του πατρος μου περισσευουσιν αρτων εγω δε λιμω απολλυμαι
Luke 15:17 And when he came to himself, he said, How many hired servants of my father's have bread enough and to spare, and I perish with hunger!
Luke 15:18 αναστας πορευσομαι προς τον πατερα μου και ερω αυτω πατερ ημαρτον εις τον ουρανον και ενωπιον σου
Luke 15:18 I will arise and go to my father, and will say unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven, and before thee,
Luke 15:19 και ουκετι ειμι αξιος κληθηναι υιος σου ποιησον με ως ενα των μισθιων σου
Luke 15:19 And am no more worthy to be called thy son: make me as one of thy hired servants.
Luke 15:20 και αναστας ηλθεν προς τον πατερα εαυτου ετι δε αυτου μακραν απεχοντος ειδεν αυτον ο πατηρ αυτου και εσπλαγχνισθη και δραμων επεπεσεν επι τον τραχηλον αυτου και κατεφιλησεν αυτον
Luke 15:20 And he arose, and came to his father. But when he was yet a great way off, his father saw him, and had compassion, and ran, and fell on his neck, and kissed him.
Luke 15:21 ειπεν δε αυτω ο υιος πατερ ημαρτον εις τον ουρανον και ενωπιον σου και ουκετι ειμι αξιος κληθηναι υιος σου
Luke 15:21 And the son said unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven, and in thy sight, and am no more worthy to be called thy son.
Luke 15:22 ειπεν δε ο πατηρ προς τους δουλους αυτου εξενεγκατε την στολην την πρωτην και ενδυσατε αυτον και δοτε δακτυλιον εις την χειρα αυτου και υποδηματα εις τους ποδας
Luke 15:22 But the father said to his servants, Bring forth the best robe, and put it on him; and put a ring on his hand, and shoes on his feet:
Luke 15:23 και ενεγκαντες τον μοσχον τον σιτευτον θυσατε και φαγοντες ευφρανθωμεν
Luke 15:23 And bring hither the fatted calf, and kill it; and let us eat, and be merry:
Luke 15:24 οτι ουτος ο υιος μου νεκρος ην και ανεζησεν και απολωλως ην και ευρεθη και ηρξαντο ευφραινεσθαι
Luke 15:24 For this my son was dead, and is alive again; he was lost, and is found. And they began to be merry.
Luke 15:25 ην δε ο υιος αυτου ο πρεσβυτερος εν αγρω και ως ερχομενος ηγγισεν τη οικια ηκουσεν συμφωνιας και χορων
Luke 15:25 Now his elder son was in the field: and as he came and drew nigh to the house, he heard musick and dancing.
Luke 15:26 και προσκαλεσαμενος ενα των παιδων αυτου επυνθανετο τι ειη ταυτα
Luke 15:26 And he called one of the servants, and asked what these things meant.
Luke 15:27 ο δε ειπεν αυτω οτι ο αδελφος σου ηκει και εθυσεν ο πατηρ σου τον μοσχον τον σιτευτον οτι υγιαινοντα αυτον απελαβεν
Luke 15:27 And he said unto him, Thy brother is come; and thy father hath killed the fatted calf, because he hath received him safe and sound.
Luke 15:28 ωργισθη δε και ουκ ηθελεν εισελθειν ο ουν πατηρ αυτου εξελθων παρεκαλει αυτον
Luke 15:28 And he was angry, and would not go in: therefore came his father out, and intreated him.
Luke 15:29 ο δε αποκριθεις ειπεν τω πατρι ιδου τοσαυτα ετη δουλευω σοι και ουδεποτε εντολην σου παρηλθον και εμοι ουδεποτε εδωκας εριφον ινα μετα των φιλων μου ευφρανθω
Luke 15:29 And he answering said to his father, Lo, these many years do I serve thee, neither transgressed I at any time thy commandment: and yet thou never gavest me a kid, that I might make merry with my friends:
Luke 15:30 οτε δε ο υιος σου ουτος ο καταφαγων σου τον βιον μετα πορνων ηλθεν εθυσας αυτω τον μοσχον τον σιτευτον
Luke 15:30 But as soon as this thy son was come, which hath devoured thy living with harlots, thou hast killed for him the fatted calf.
Luke 15:31 ο δε ειπεν αυτω τεκνον συ παντοτε μετ εμου ει και παντα τα εμα σα εστιν
Luke 15:31 And he said unto him, Son, thou art ever with me, and all that I have is thine.
Luke 15:32 ευφρανθηναι δε και χαρηναι εδει οτι ο αδελφος σου ουτος νεκρος ην και ανεζησεν και απολωλως ην και ευρεθη
Luke 15:32 It was meet that we should make merry, and be glad: for this thy brother was dead, and is alive again; and was lost, and is found.
Luke 16:1 ελεγεν δε και προς τους μαθητας αυτου ανθρωπος τις ην πλουσιος ος ειχεν οικονομον και ουτος διεβληθη αυτω ως διασκορπιζων τα υπαρχοντα αυτου
Luke 16:1 And he said also unto his disciples, There was a certain rich man, which had a steward; and the same was accused unto him that he had wasted his goods.
Luke 16:2 και φωνησας αυτον ειπεν αυτω τι τουτο ακουω περι σου αποδος τον λογον της οικονομιας σου ου γαρ δυνηση ετι οικονομειν
Luke 16:2 And he called him, and said unto him, How is it that I hear this of thee? give an account of thy stewardship; for thou mayest be no longer steward.
Luke 16:3 ειπεν δε εν εαυτω ο οικονομος τι ποιησω οτι ο κυριος μου αφαιρειται την οικονομιαν απ εμου σκαπτειν ουκ ισχυω επαιτειν αισχυνομαι
Luke 16:3 Then the steward said within himself, What shall I do? for my lord taketh away from me the stewardship: I cannot dig; to beg I am ashamed.
Luke 16:4 εγνων τι ποιησω ινα οταν μετασταθω της οικονομιας δεξωνται με εις τους οικους αυτων
Luke 16:4 I am resolved what to do, that, when I am put out of the stewardship, they may receive me into their houses.
Luke 16:5 και προσκαλεσαμενος ενα εκαστον των χρεωφειλετων του κυριου εαυτου ελεγεν τω πρωτω ποσον οφειλεις τω κυριω μου
Luke 16:5 So he called every one of his lord's debtors unto him, and said unto the first, How much owest thou unto my lord?
Luke 16:6 ο δε ειπεν εκατον βατους ελαιου και ειπεν αυτω δεξαι σου το γραμμα και καθισας ταχεως γραψον πεντηκοντα
Luke 16:6 And he said, An hundred measures of oil. And he said unto him, Take thy bill, and sit down quickly, and write fifty.
Luke 16:7 επειτα ετερω ειπεν συ δε ποσον οφειλεις ο δε ειπεν εκατον κορους σιτου και λεγει αυτω δεξαι σου το γραμμα και γραψον ογδοηκοντα
Luke 16:7 Then said he to another, And how much owest thou? And he said, An hundred measures of wheat. And he said unto him, Take thy bill, and write fourscore.
Luke 16:8 και επηνεσεν ο κυριος τον οικονομον της αδικιας οτι φρονιμως εποιησεν οτι οι υιοι του αιωνος τουτου φρονιμωτεροι υπερ τους υιους του φωτος εις την γενεαν την εαυτων εισιν
Luke 16:8 And the lord commended the unjust steward, because he had done wisely: for the children of this world are in their generation wiser than the children of light.
Luke 16:9 καγω υμιν λεγω ποιησατε εαυτοις φιλους εκ του μαμωνα της αδικιας ινα οταν εκλιπητε δεξωνται υμας εις τας αιωνιους σκηνας
Luke 16:9 And I say unto you, Make to yourselves friends of the mammon of unrighteousness; that, when ye fail, they may receive you into everlasting habitations.
Luke 16:10 ο πιστος εν ελαχιστω και εν πολλω πιστος εστιν και ο εν ελαχιστω αδικος και εν πολλω αδικος εστιν
Luke 16:10 He that is faithful in that which is least is faithful also in much: and he that is unjust in the least is unjust also in much.
Luke 16:11 ει ουν εν τω αδικω μαμωνα πιστοι ουκ εγενεσθε το αληθινον τις υμιν πιστευσει
Luke 16:11 If therefore ye have not been faithful in the unrighteous mammon, who will commit to your trust the true riches?
Luke 16:12 και ει εν τω αλλοτριω πιστοι ουκ εγενεσθε το υμετερον τις υμιν δωσει
Luke 16:12 And if ye have not been faithful in that which is another man's, who shall give you that which is your own?
Luke 16:13 ουδεις οικετης δυναται δυσι κυριοις δουλευειν η γαρ τον ενα μισησει και τον ετερον αγαπησει η ενος ανθεξεται και του ετερου καταφρονησει ου δυνασθε θεω δουλευειν και μαμωνα
Luke 16:13 No servant can serve two masters: for either he will hate the one, and love the other; or else he will hold to the one, and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and mammon.
Luke 16:14 ηκουον δε ταυτα παντα και οι φαρισαιοι φιλαργυροι υπαρχοντες και εξεμυκτηριζον αυτον
Luke 16:14 And the Pharisees also, who were covetous, heard all these things: and they derided him.
Luke 16:15 και ειπεν αυτοις υμεις εστε οι δικαιουντες εαυτους ενωπιον των ανθρωπων ο δε θεος γινωσκει τας καρδιας υμων οτι το εν ανθρωποις υψηλον βδελυγμα ενωπιον του θεου εστιν
Luke 16:15 And he said unto them, Ye are they which justify yourselves before men; but God knoweth your hearts: for that which is highly esteemed among men is abomination in the sight of God.
Luke 16:16 ο νομος και οι προφηται εως ιωαννου απο τοτε η βασιλεια του θεου ευαγγελιζεται και πας εις αυτην βιαζεται
Luke 16:16 The law and the prophets were until John: since that time the kingdom of God is preached, and every man presseth into it.
Luke 16:17 ευκοπωτερον δε εστιν τον ουρανον και την γην παρελθειν η του νομου μιαν κεραιαν πεσειν
Luke 16:17 And it is easier for heaven and earth to pass, than one tittle of the law to fail.
Luke 16:18 πας ο απολυων την γυναικα αυτου και γαμων ετεραν μοιχευει και πας ο απολελυμενην απο ανδρος γαμων μοιχευει
Luke 16:18 Whosoever putteth away his wife, and marrieth another, committeth adultery: and whosoever marrieth her that is put away from her husband committeth adultery.
Luke 16:19 ανθρωπος δε τις ην πλουσιος και ενεδιδυσκετο πορφυραν και βυσσον ευφραινομενος καθ ημεραν λαμπρως
Luke 16:19 There was a certain rich man, which was clothed in purple and fine linen, and fared sumptuously every day:
Luke 16:20 πτωχος δε τις ην ονοματι λαζαρος ος εβεβλητο προς τον πυλωνα αυτου ηλκωμενος
Luke 16:20 And there was a certain beggar named Lazarus, which was laid at his gate, full of sores,
Luke 16:21 και επιθυμων χορτασθηναι απο των ψιχιων των πιπτοντων απο της τραπεζης του πλουσιου αλλα και οι κυνες ερχομενοι απελειχον τα ελκη αυτου
Luke 16:21 And desiring to be fed with the crumbs which fell from the rich man's table: moreover the dogs came and licked his sores.
Luke 16:22 εγενετο δε αποθανειν τον πτωχον και απενεχθηναι αυτον υπο των αγγελων εις τον κολπον του αβρααμ απεθανεν δε και ο πλουσιος και εταφη
Luke 16:22 And it came to pass, that the beggar died, and was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom: the rich man also died, and was buried;
Luke 16:23 και εν τω αδη επαρας τους οφθαλμους αυτου υπαρχων εν βασανοις ορα τον αβρααμ απο μακροθεν και λαζαρον εν τοις κολποις αυτου
Luke 16:23 And in hell he lift up his eyes, being in torments, and seeth Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom.
Luke 16:24 και αυτος φωνησας ειπεν πατερ αβρααμ ελεησον με και πεμψον λαζαρον ινα βαψη το ακρον του δακτυλου αυτου υδατος και καταψυξη την γλωσσαν μου οτι οδυνωμαι εν τη φλογι ταυτη
Luke 16:24 And he cried and said, Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus, that he may dip the tip of his finger in water, and cool my tongue; for I am tormented in this flame.
Luke 16:25 ειπεν δε αβρααμ τεκνον μνησθητι οτι απελαβες συ τα αγαθα σου εν τη ζωη σου και λαζαρος ομοιως τα κακα νυν δε οδε παρακαλειται συ δε οδυνασαι
Luke 16:25 But Abraham said, Son, remember that thou in thy lifetime receivedst thy good things, and likewise Lazarus evil things: but now he is comforted, and thou art tormented.
Luke 16:26 και επι πασιν τουτοις μεταξυ ημων και υμων χασμα μεγα εστηρικται οπως οι θελοντες διαβηναι εντευθεν προς υμας μη δυνωνται μηδε οι εκειθεν προς ημας διαπερωσιν
Luke 16:26 And beside all this, between us and you there is a great gulf fixed: so that they which would pass from hence to you cannot; neither can they pass to us, that would come from thence.
Luke 16:27 ειπεν δε ερωτω ουν σε πατερ ινα πεμψης αυτον εις τον οικον του πατρος μου
Luke 16:27 Then he said, I pray thee therefore, father, that thou wouldest send him to my father's house:
Luke 16:28 εχω γαρ πεντε αδελφους οπως διαμαρτυρηται αυτοις ινα μη και αυτοι ελθωσιν εις τον τοπον τουτον της βασανου
Luke 16:28 For I have five brethren; that he may testify unto them, lest they also come into this place of torment.
Luke 16:29 λεγει αυτω αβρααμ εχουσιν μωσεα και τους προφητας ακουσατωσαν αυτων
Luke 16:29 Abraham saith unto him, They have Moses and the prophets; let them hear them.
Luke 16:30 ο δε ειπεν ουχι πατερ αβρααμ αλλ εαν τις απο νεκρων πορευθη προς αυτους μετανοησουσιν
Luke 16:30 And he said, Nay, father Abraham: but if one went unto them from the dead, they will repent.
Luke 16:31 ειπεν δε αυτω ει μωσεως και των προφητων ουκ ακουουσιν ουδε εαν τις εκ νεκρων αναστη πεισθησονται
Luke 16:31 And he said unto him, If they hear not Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded, though one rose from the dead.
Luke 17:1 ειπεν δε προς τους μαθητας ανενδεκτον εστιν του μη ελθειν τα σκανδαλα ουαι δε δι ου ερχεται
Luke 17:1 Then said he unto the disciples, It is impossible but that offences will come: but woe unto him, through whom they come!
Luke 17:2 λυσιτελει αυτω ει μυλος ονικος περικειται περι τον τραχηλον αυτου και ερριπται εις την θαλασσαν η ινα σκανδαλιση ενα των μικρων τουτων
Luke 17:2 It were better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck, and he cast into the sea, than that he should offend one of these little ones.
Luke 17:3 προσεχετε εαυτοις εαν δε αμαρτη εις σε ο αδελφος σου επιτιμησον αυτω και εαν μετανοηση αφες αυτω
Luke 17:3 Take heed to yourselves: If thy brother trespass against thee, rebuke him; and if he repent, forgive him.
Luke 17:4 και εαν επτακις της ημερας αμαρτη εις σε και επτακις της ημερας επιστρεψη επι σε λεγων μετανοω αφησεις αυτω
Luke 17:4 And if he trespass against thee seven times in a day, and seven times in a day turn again to thee, saying, I repent; thou shalt forgive him.
Luke 17:5 και ειπον οι αποστολοι τω κυριω προσθες ημιν πιστιν
Luke 17:5 And the apostles said unto the Lord, Increase our faith.
Luke 17:6 ειπεν δε ο κυριος ει ειχετε πιστιν ως κοκκον σιναπεως ελεγετε αν τη συκαμινω ταυτη εκριζωθητι και φυτευθητι εν τη θαλασση και υπηκουσεν αν υμιν
Luke 17:6 And the Lord said, If ye had faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye might say unto this sycamine tree, Be thou plucked up by the root, and be thou planted in the sea; and it should obey you.
Luke 17:7 τις δε εξ υμων δουλον εχων αροτριωντα η ποιμαινοντα ος εισελθοντι εκ του αγρου ερει ευθεως παρελθων αναπεσαι
Luke 17:7 But which of you, having a servant plowing or feeding cattle, will say unto him by and by, when he is come from the field, Go and sit down to meat?
Luke 17:8 αλλ ουχι ερει αυτω ετοιμασον τι δειπνησω και περιζωσαμενος διακονει μοι εως φαγω και πιω και μετα ταυτα φαγεσαι και πιεσαι συ
Luke 17:8 And will not rather say unto him, Make ready wherewith I may sup, and gird thyself, and serve me, till I have eaten and drunken; and afterward thou shalt eat and drink?
Luke 17:9 μη χαριν εχει τω δουλω εκεινω οτι εποιησεν τα διαταχθεντα αυτω ου δοκω
Luke 17:9 Doth he thank that servant because he did the things that were commanded him? I trow not.
Luke 17:10 ουτως και υμεις οταν ποιησητε παντα τα διαταχθεντα υμιν λεγετε οτι δουλοι αχρειοι εσμεν οτι ο ωφειλομεν ποιησαι πεποιηκαμεν
Luke 17:10 So likewise ye, when ye shall have done all those things which are commanded you, say, We are unprofitable servants: we have done that which was our duty to do.
Luke 17:11 και εγενετο εν τω πορευεσθαι αυτον εις ιερουσαλημ και αυτος διηρχετο δια μεσου σαμαρειας και γαλιλαιας
Luke 17:11 And it came to pass, as he went to Jerusalem, that he passed through the midst of Samaria and Galilee.
Luke 17:12 και εισερχομενου αυτου εις τινα κωμην απηντησαν αυτω δεκα λεπροι ανδρες οι εστησαν πορρωθεν
Luke 17:12 And as he entered into a certain village, there met him ten men that were lepers, which stood afar off:
Luke 17:13 και αυτοι ηραν φωνην λεγοντες ιησου επιστατα ελεησον ημας
Luke 17:13 And they lifted up their voices, and said, Jesus, Master, have mercy on us.
Luke 17:14 και ιδων ειπεν αυτοις πορευθεντες επιδειξατε εαυτους τοις ιερευσιν και εγενετο εν τω υπαγειν αυτους εκαθαρισθησαν
Luke 17:14 And when he saw them, he said unto them, Go shew yourselves unto the priests. And it came to pass, that, as they went, they were cleansed.
Luke 17:15 εις δε εξ αυτων ιδων οτι ιαθη υπεστρεψεν μετα φωνης μεγαλης δοξαζων τον θεον
Luke 17:15 And one of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back, and with a loud voice glorified God,
Luke 17:16 και επεσεν επι προσωπον παρα τους ποδας αυτου ευχαριστων αυτω και αυτος ην σαμαρειτης
Luke 17:16 And fell down on his face at his feet, giving him thanks: and he was a Samaritan.
Luke 17:17 αποκριθεις δε ο ιησους ειπεν ουχι οι δεκα εκαθαρισθησαν οι δε εννεα που
Luke 17:17 And Jesus answering said, Were there not ten cleansed? but where are the nine?
Luke 17:18 ουχ ευρεθησαν υποστρεψαντες δουναι δοξαν τω θεω ει μη ο αλλογενης ουτος
Luke 17:18 There are not found that returned to give glory to God, save this stranger.
Luke 17:19 και ειπεν αυτω αναστας πορευου η πιστις σου σεσωκεν σε
Luke 17:19 And he said unto him, Arise, go thy way: thy faith hath made thee whole.
Luke 17:20 επερωτηθεις δε υπο των φαρισαιων ποτε ερχεται η βασιλεια του θεου απεκριθη αυτοις και ειπεν ουκ ερχεται η βασιλεια του θεου μετα παρατηρησεως
Luke 17:20 And when he was demanded of the Pharisees, when the kingdom of God should come, he answered them and said, The kingdom of God cometh not with observation:
Luke 17:21 ουδε ερουσιν ιδου ωδε η ιδου εκει ιδου γαρ η βασιλεια του θεου εντος υμων εστιν
Luke 17:21 Neither shall they say, Lo here! or, lo there! for, behold, the kingdom of God is within you.
Luke 17:22 ειπεν δε προς τους μαθητας ελευσονται ημεραι οτε επιθυμησετε μιαν των ημερων του υιου του ανθρωπου ιδειν και ουκ οψεσθε
Luke 17:22 And he said unto the disciples, The days will come, when ye shall desire to see one of the days of the Son of man, and ye shall not see it.
Luke 17:23 και ερουσιν υμιν ιδου ωδε η ιδου εκει μη απελθητε μηδε διωξητε
Luke 17:23 And they shall say to you, See here; or, see there: go not after them, nor follow them.
Luke 17:24 ωσπερ γαρ η αστραπη η αστραπτουσα εκ της υπ ουρανον εις την υπ ουρανον λαμπει ουτως εσται και ο υιος του ανθρωπου εν τη ημερα αυτου
Luke 17:24 For as the lightning, that lighteneth out of the one part under heaven, shineth unto the other part under heaven; so shall also the Son of man be in his day.
Luke 17:25 πρωτον δε δει αυτον πολλα παθειν και αποδοκιμασθηναι απο της γενεας ταυτης
Luke 17:25 But first must he suffer many things, and be rejected of this generation.
Luke 17:26 και καθως εγενετο εν ταις ημεραις του νωε ουτως εσται και εν ταις ημεραις του υιου του ανθρωπου
Luke 17:26 And as it was in the days of Noe, so shall it be also in the days of the Son of man.
Luke 17:27 ησθιον επινον εγαμουν εξεγαμιζοντο αχρι ης ημερας εισηλθεν νωε εις την κιβωτον και ηλθεν ο κατακλυσμος και απωλεσεν απαντας
Luke 17:27 They did eat, they drank, they married wives, they were given in marriage, until the day that Noe entered into the ark, and the flood came, and destroyed them all.
Luke 17:28 ομοιως και ως εγενετο εν ταις ημεραις λωτ ησθιον επινον ηγοραζον επωλουν εφυτευον ωκοδομουν
Luke 17:28 Likewise also as it was in the days of Lot; they did eat, they drank, they bought, they sold, they planted, they builded;
Luke 17:29 η δε ημερα εξηλθεν λωτ απο σοδομων εβρεξεν πυρ και θειον απ ουρανου και απωλεσεν απαντας
Luke 17:29 But the same day that Lot went out of Sodom it rained fire and brimstone from heaven, and destroyed them all.
Luke 17:30 κατα ταυτα εσται η ημερα ο υιος του ανθρωπου αποκαλυπτεται
Luke 17:30 Even thus shall it be in the day when the Son of man is revealed.
Luke 17:31 εν εκεινη τη ημερα ος εσται επι του δωματος και τα σκευη αυτου εν τη οικια μη καταβατω αραι αυτα και ο εν τω αγρω ομοιως μη επιστρεψατω εις τα οπισω
Luke 17:31 In that day, he which shall be upon the housetop, and his stuff in the house, let him not come down to take it away: and he that is in the field, let him likewise not return back.
Luke 17:32 μνημονευετε της γυναικος λωτ
Luke 17:32 Remember Lot's wife.
Luke 17:33 ος εαν ζητηση την ψυχην αυτου σωσαι απολεσει αυτην και ος εαν απολεση αυτην ζωογονησει αυτην
Luke 17:33 Whosoever shall seek to save his life shall lose it; and whosoever shall lose his life shall preserve it.
Luke 17:34 λεγω υμιν ταυτη τη νυκτι εσονται δυο επι κλινης μιας ο εις παραληφθησεται και ο ετερος αφεθησεται
Luke 17:34 I tell you, in that night there shall be two men in one bed; the one shall be taken, and the other shall be left.
Luke 17:35 δυο εσονται αληθουσαι επι το αυτο μια παραληφθησεται και η ετερα αφεθησεται
Luke 17:35 Two women shall be grinding together; the one shall be taken, and the other left.
Luke 17:36 
Luke 17:36 Two men shall be in the field; the one shall be taken, and the other left.
Luke 17:37 και αποκριθεντες λεγουσιν αυτω που κυριε ο δε ειπεν αυτοις οπου το σωμα εκει συναχθησονται οι αετοι
Luke 17:37 And they answered and said unto him, Where, Lord? And he said unto them, Wheresoever the body is, thither will the eagles be gathered together.
Luke 18:1 ελεγεν δε και παραβολην αυτοις προς το δειν παντοτε προσευχεσθαι και μη εκκακειν
Luke 18:1 And he spake a parable unto them to this end, that men ought always to pray, and not to faint;
Luke 18:2 λεγων κριτης τις ην εν τινι πολει τον θεον μη φοβουμενος και ανθρωπον μη εντρεπομενος
Luke 18:2 Saying, There was in a city a judge, which feared not God, neither regarded man:
Luke 18:3 χηρα δε ην εν τη πολει εκεινη και ηρχετο προς αυτον λεγουσα εκδικησον με απο του αντιδικου μου
Luke 18:3 And there was a widow in that city; and she came unto him, saying, Avenge me of mine adversary.
Luke 18:4 και ουκ ηθελησεν επι χρονον μετα δε ταυτα ειπεν εν εαυτω ει και τον θεον ου φοβουμαι και ανθρωπον ουκ εντρεπομαι
Luke 18:4 And he would not for a while: but afterward he said within himself, Though I fear not God, nor regard man;
Luke 18:5 δια γε το παρεχειν μοι κοπον την χηραν ταυτην εκδικησω αυτην ινα μη εις τελος ερχομενη υπωπιαζη με
Luke 18:5 Yet because this widow troubleth me, I will avenge her, lest by her continual coming she weary me.
Luke 18:6 ειπεν δε ο κυριος ακουσατε τι ο κριτης της αδικιας λεγει
Luke 18:6 And the Lord said, Hear what the unjust judge saith.
Luke 18:7 ο δε θεος ου μη ποιησει την εκδικησιν των εκλεκτων αυτου των βοωντων προς αυτον ημερας και νυκτος και μακροθυμων επ αυτοις
Luke 18:7 And shall not God avenge his own elect, which cry day and night unto him, though he bear long with them?
Luke 18:8 λεγω υμιν οτι ποιησει την εκδικησιν αυτων εν ταχει πλην ο υιος του ανθρωπου ελθων αρα ευρησει την πιστιν επι της γης
Luke 18:8 I tell you that he will avenge them speedily. Nevertheless when the Son of man cometh, shall he find faith on the earth?
Luke 18:9 ειπεν δε και προς τινας τους πεποιθοτας εφ εαυτοις οτι εισιν δικαιοι και εξουθενουντας τους λοιπους την παραβολην ταυτην
Luke 18:9 And he spake this parable unto certain which trusted in themselves that they were righteous, and despised others:
Luke 18:10 ανθρωποι δυο ανεβησαν εις το ιερον προσευξασθαι ο εις φαρισαιος και ο ετερος τελωνης
Luke 18:10 Two men went up into the temple to pray; the one a Pharisee, and the other a publican.
Luke 18:11 ο φαρισαιος σταθεις προς εαυτον ταυτα προσηυχετο ο θεος ευχαριστω σοι οτι ουκ ειμι ωσπερ οι λοιποι των ανθρωπων αρπαγες αδικοι μοιχοι η και ως ουτος ο τελωνης
Luke 18:11 The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself, God, I thank thee, that I am not as other men are, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this publican.
Luke 18:12 νηστευω δις του σαββατου αποδεκατω παντα οσα κτωμαι
Luke 18:12 I fast twice in the week, I give tithes of all that I possess.
Luke 18:13 και ο τελωνης μακροθεν εστως ουκ ηθελεν ουδε τους οφθαλμους εις τον ουρανον επαραι αλλ ετυπτεν εις το στηθος αυτου λεγων ο θεος ιλασθητι μοι τω αμαρτωλω
Luke 18:13 And the publican, standing afar off, would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God be merciful to me a sinner.
Luke 18:14 λεγω υμιν κατεβη ουτος δεδικαιωμενος εις τον οικον αυτου η εκεινος οτι πας ο υψων εαυτον ταπεινωθησεται ο δε ταπεινων εαυτον υψωθησεται
Luke 18:14 I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other: for every one that exalteth himself shall be abased; and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted.
Luke 18:15 προσεφερον δε αυτω και τα βρεφη ινα αυτων απτηται ιδοντες δε οι μαθηται επετιμησαν αυτοις
Luke 18:15 And they brought unto him also infants, that he would touch them: but when his disciples saw it, they rebuked them.
Luke 18:16 ο δε ιησους προσκαλεσαμενος αυτα ειπεν αφετε τα παιδια ερχεσθαι προς με και μη κωλυετε αυτα των γαρ τοιουτων εστιν η βασιλεια του θεου
Luke 18:16 But Jesus called them unto him, and said, Suffer little children to come unto me, and forbid them not: for of such is the kingdom of God.
Luke 18:17 αμην λεγω υμιν ος εαν μη δεξηται την βασιλειαν του θεου ως παιδιον ου μη εισελθη εις αυτην
Luke 18:17 Verily I say unto you, Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child shall in no wise enter therein.
Luke 18:18 και επηρωτησεν τις αυτον αρχων λεγων διδασκαλε αγαθε τι ποιησας ζωην αιωνιον κληρονομησω
Luke 18:18 And a certain ruler asked him, saying, Good Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?
Luke 18:19 ειπεν δε αυτω ο ιησους τι με λεγεις αγαθον ουδεις αγαθος ει μη εις ο θεος
Luke 18:19 And Jesus said unto him, Why callest thou me good? none is good, save one, that is, God.
Luke 18:20 τας εντολας οιδας μη μοιχευσης μη φονευσης μη κλεψης μη ψευδομαρτυρησης τιμα τον πατερα σου και την μητερα σου
Luke 18:20 Thou knowest the commandments, Do not commit adultery, Do not kill, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Honour thy father and thy mother.
Luke 18:21 ο δε ειπεν ταυτα παντα εφυλαξαμην εκ νεοτητος μου
Luke 18:21 And he said, All these have I kept from my youth up.
Luke 18:22 ακουσας δε ταυτα ο ιησους ειπεν αυτω ετι εν σοι λειπει παντα οσα εχεις πωλησον και διαδος πτωχοις και εξεις θησαυρον εν ουρανω και δευρο ακολουθει μοι
Luke 18:22 Now when Jesus heard these things, he said unto him, Yet lackest thou one thing: sell all that thou hast, and distribute unto the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come, follow me.
Luke 18:23 ο δε ακουσας ταυτα περιλυπος εγενετο ην γαρ πλουσιος σφοδρα
Luke 18:23 And when he heard this, he was very sorrowful: for he was very rich.
Luke 18:24 ιδων δε αυτον ο ιησους περιλυπον γενομενον ειπεν πως δυσκολως οι τα χρηματα εχοντες εισελευσονται εις την βασιλειαν του θεου
Luke 18:24 And when Jesus saw that he was very sorrowful, he said, How hardly shall they that have riches enter into the kingdom of God!
Luke 18:25 ευκοπωτερον γαρ εστιν καμηλον δια τρυμαλιας ραφιδος εισελθειν η πλουσιον εις την βασιλειαν του θεου εισελθειν
Luke 18:25 For it is easier for a camel to go through a needle's eye, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God.
Luke 18:26 ειπον δε οι ακουσαντες και τις δυναται σωθηναι
Luke 18:26 And they that heard it said, Who then can be saved?
Luke 18:27 ο δε ειπεν τα αδυνατα παρα ανθρωποις δυνατα εστιν παρα τω θεω
Luke 18:27 And he said, The things which are impossible with men are possible with God.
Luke 18:28 ειπεν δε ο πετρος ιδου ημεις αφηκαμεν παντα και ηκολουθησαμεν σοι
Luke 18:28 Then Peter said, Lo, we have left all, and followed thee.
Luke 18:29 ο δε ειπεν αυτοις αμην λεγω υμιν οτι ουδεις εστιν ος αφηκεν οικιαν η γονεις η αδελφους η γυναικα η τεκνα ενεκεν της βασιλειας του θεου
Luke 18:29 And he said unto them, Verily I say unto you, There is no man that hath left house, or parents, or brethren, or wife, or children, for the kingdom of God's sake,
Luke 18:30 ος ου μη απολαβη πολλαπλασιονα εν τω καιρω τουτω και εν τω αιωνι τω ερχομενω ζωην αιωνιον
Luke 18:30 Who shall not receive manifold more in this present time, and in the world to come life everlasting.
Luke 18:31 παραλαβων δε τους δωδεκα ειπεν προς αυτους ιδου αναβαινομεν εις ιεροσολυμα και τελεσθησεται παντα τα γεγραμμενα δια των προφητων τω υιω του ανθρωπου
Luke 18:31 Then he took unto him the twelve, and said unto them, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem, and all things that are written by the prophets concerning the Son of man shall be accomplished.
Luke 18:32 παραδοθησεται γαρ τοις εθνεσιν και εμπαιχθησεται και υβρισθησεται και εμπτυσθησεται
Luke 18:32 For he shall be delivered unto the Gentiles, and shall be mocked, and spitefully entreated, and spitted on:
Luke 18:33 και μαστιγωσαντες αποκτενουσιν αυτον και τη ημερα τη τριτη αναστησεται
Luke 18:33 And they shall scourge him, and put him to death: and the third day he shall rise again.
Luke 18:34 και αυτοι ουδεν τουτων συνηκαν και ην το ρημα τουτο κεκρυμμενον απ αυτων και ουκ εγινωσκον τα λεγομενα
Luke 18:34 And they understood none of these things: and this saying was hid from them, neither knew they the things which were spoken.
Luke 18:35 εγενετο δε εν τω εγγιζειν αυτον εις ιεριχω τυφλος τις εκαθητο παρα την οδον προσαιτων
Luke 18:35 And it came to pass, that as he was come nigh unto Jericho, a certain blind man sat by the way side begging:
Luke 18:36 ακουσας δε οχλου διαπορευομενου επυνθανετο τι ειη τουτο
Luke 18:36 And hearing the multitude pass by, he asked what it meant.
Luke 18:37 απηγγειλαν δε αυτω οτι ιησους ο ναζωραιος παρερχεται
Luke 18:37 And they told him, that Jesus of Nazareth passeth by.
Luke 18:38 και εβοησεν λεγων ιησου υιε δαβιδ ελεησον με
Luke 18:38 And he cried, saying, Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy on me.
Luke 18:39 και οι προαγοντες επετιμων αυτω ινα σιωπηση αυτος δε πολλω μαλλον εκραζεν υιε δαβιδ ελεησον με
Luke 18:39 And they which went before rebuked him, that he should hold his peace: but he cried so much the more, Thou son of David, have mercy on me.
Luke 18:40 σταθεις δε ο ιησους εκελευσεν αυτον αχθηναι προς αυτον εγγισαντος δε αυτου επηρωτησεν αυτον
Luke 18:40 And Jesus stood, and commanded him to be brought unto him: and when he was come near, he asked him,
Luke 18:41 λεγων τι σοι θελεις ποιησω ο δε ειπεν κυριε ινα αναβλεψω
Luke 18:41 Saying, What wilt thou that I shall do unto thee? And he said, Lord, that I may receive my sight.
Luke 18:42 και ο ιησους ειπεν αυτω αναβλεψον η πιστις σου σεσωκεν σε
Luke 18:42 And Jesus said unto him, Receive thy sight: thy faith hath saved thee.
Luke 18:43 και παραχρημα ανεβλεψεν και ηκολουθει αυτω δοξαζων τον θεον και πας ο λαος ιδων εδωκεν αινον τω θεω
Luke 18:43 And immediately he received his sight, and followed him, glorifying God: and all the people, when they saw it, gave praise unto God.
Luke 19:1 και εισελθων διηρχετο την ιεριχω
Luke 19:1 And Jesus entered and passed through Jericho.
Luke 19:2 και ιδου ανηρ ονοματι καλουμενος ζακχαιος και αυτος ην αρχιτελωνης και ουτος ην πλουσιος
Luke 19:2 And, behold, there was a man named Zacchaeus, which was the chief among the publicans, and he was rich.
Luke 19:3 και εζητει ιδειν τον ιησουν τις εστιν και ουκ ηδυνατο απο του οχλου οτι τη ηλικια μικρος ην
Luke 19:3 And he sought to see Jesus who he was; and could not for the press, because he was little of stature.
Luke 19:4 και προδραμων εμπροσθεν ανεβη επι συκομωραιαν ινα ιδη αυτον οτι δι εκεινης ημελλεν διερχεσθαι
Luke 19:4 And he ran before, and climbed up into a sycomore tree to see him: for he was to pass that way.
Luke 19:5 και ως ηλθεν επι τον τοπον αναβλεψας ο ιησους ειδεν αυτον και ειπεν προς αυτον ζακχαιε σπευσας καταβηθι σημερον γαρ εν τω οικω σου δει με μειναι
Luke 19:5 And when Jesus came to the place, he looked up, and saw him, and said unto him, Zacchaeus, make haste, and come down; for to day I must abide at thy house.
Luke 19:6 και σπευσας κατεβη και υπεδεξατο αυτον χαιρων
Luke 19:6 And he made haste, and came down, and received him joyfully.
Luke 19:7 και ιδοντες απαντες διεγογγυζον λεγοντες οτι παρα αμαρτωλω ανδρι εισηλθεν καταλυσαι
Luke 19:7 And when they saw it, they all murmured, saying, That he was gone to be guest with a man that is a sinner.
Luke 19:8 σταθεις δε ζακχαιος ειπεν προς τον κυριον ιδου τα ημιση των υπαρχοντων μου κυριε διδωμι τοις πτωχοις και ει τινος τι εσυκοφαντησα αποδιδωμι τετραπλουν
Luke 19:8 And Zacchaeus stood, and said unto the Lord: Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor; and if I have taken any thing from any man by false accusation, I restore him fourfold.
Luke 19:9 ειπεν δε προς αυτον ο ιησους οτι σημερον σωτηρια τω οικω τουτω εγενετο καθοτι και αυτος υιος αβρααμ εστιν
Luke 19:9 And Jesus said unto him, This day is salvation come to this house, forsomuch as he also is a son of Abraham.
Luke 19:10 ηλθεν γαρ ο υιος του ανθρωπου ζητησαι και σωσαι το απολωλος
Luke 19:10 For the Son of man is come to seek and to save that which was lost.
Luke 19:11 ακουοντων δε αυτων ταυτα προσθεις ειπεν παραβολην δια το εγγυς αυτον ειναι ιερουσαλημ και δοκειν αυτους οτι παραχρημα μελλει η βασιλεια του θεου αναφαινεσθαι
Luke 19:11 And as they heard these things, he added and spake a parable, because he was nigh to Jerusalem, and because they thought that the kingdom of God should immediately appear.
Luke 19:12 ειπεν ουν ανθρωπος τις ευγενης επορευθη εις χωραν μακραν λαβειν εαυτω βασιλειαν και υποστρεψαι
Luke 19:12 He said therefore, A certain nobleman went into a far country to receive for himself a kingdom, and to return.
Luke 19:13 καλεσας δε δεκα δουλους εαυτου εδωκεν αυτοις δεκα μνας και ειπεν προς αυτους πραγματευσασθε εως ερχομαι
Luke 19:13 And he called his ten servants, and delivered them ten pounds, and said unto them, Occupy till I come.
Luke 19:14 οι δε πολιται αυτου εμισουν αυτον και απεστειλαν πρεσβειαν οπισω αυτου λεγοντες ου θελομεν τουτον βασιλευσαι εφ ημας
Luke 19:14 But his citizens hated him, and sent a message after him, saying, We will not have this man to reign over us.
Luke 19:15 και εγενετο εν τω επανελθειν αυτον λαβοντα την βασιλειαν και ειπεν φωνηθηναι αυτω τους δουλους τουτους οις εδωκεν το αργυριον ινα γνω τις τι διεπραγματευσατο
Luke 19:15 And it came to pass, that when he was returned, having received the kingdom, then he commanded these servants to be called unto him, to whom he had given the money, that he might know how much every man had gained by trading.
Luke 19:16 παρεγενετο δε ο πρωτος λεγων κυριε η μνα σου προσειργασατο δεκα μνας
Luke 19:16 Then came the first, saying, Lord, thy pound hath gained ten pounds.
Luke 19:17 και ειπεν αυτω ευ αγαθε δουλε οτι εν ελαχιστω πιστος εγενου ισθι εξουσιαν εχων επανω δεκα πολεων
Luke 19:17 And he said unto him, Well, thou good servant: because thou hast been faithful in a very little, have thou authority over ten cities.
Luke 19:18 και ηλθεν ο δευτερος λεγων κυριε η μνα σου εποιησεν πεντε μνας
Luke 19:18 And the second came, saying, Lord, thy pound hath gained five pounds.
Luke 19:19 ειπεν δε και τουτω και συ γινου επανω πεντε πολεων
Luke 19:19 And he said likewise to him, Be thou also over five cities.
Luke 19:20 και ετερος ηλθεν λεγων κυριε ιδου η μνα σου ην ειχον αποκειμενην εν σουδαριω
Luke 19:20 And another came, saying, Lord, behold, here is thy pound, which I have kept laid up in a napkin:
Luke 19:21 εφοβουμην γαρ σε οτι ανθρωπος αυστηρος ει αιρεις ο ουκ εθηκας και θεριζεις ο ουκ εσπειρας
Luke 19:21 For I feared thee, because thou art an austere man: thou takest up that thou layedst not down, and reapest that thou didst not sow.
Luke 19:22 λεγει δε αυτω εκ του στοματος σου κρινω σε πονηρε δουλε ηδεις οτι εγω ανθρωπος αυστηρος ειμι αιρων ο ουκ εθηκα και θεριζων ο ουκ εσπειρα
Luke 19:22 And he saith unto him, Out of thine own mouth will I judge thee, thou wicked servant. Thou knewest that I was an austere man, taking up that I laid not down, and reaping that I did not sow:
Luke 19:23 και διατι ουκ εδωκας το αργυριον μου επι την τραπεζαν και εγω ελθων συν τοκω αν επραξα αυτο
Luke 19:23 Wherefore then gavest not thou my money into the bank, that at my coming I might have required mine own with usury?
Luke 19:24 και τοις παρεστωσιν ειπεν αρατε απ αυτου την μναν και δοτε τω τας δεκα μνας εχοντι
Luke 19:24 And he said unto them that stood by, Take from him the pound, and give it to him that hath ten pounds.
Luke 19:25 και ειπον αυτω κυριε εχει δεκα μνας
Luke 19:25 (And they said unto him, Lord, he hath ten pounds.)
Luke 19:26 λεγω γαρ υμιν οτι παντι τω εχοντι δοθησεται απο δε του μη εχοντος και ο εχει αρθησεται απ αυτου
Luke 19:26 For I say unto you, That unto every one which hath shall be given; and from him that hath not, even that he hath shall be taken away from him.
Luke 19:27 πλην τους εχθρους μου εκεινους τους μη θελησαντας με βασιλευσαι επ αυτους αγαγετε ωδε και κατασφαξατε εμπροσθεν μου
Luke 19:27 But those mine enemies, which would not that I should reign over them, bring hither, and slay them before me.
Luke 19:28 και ειπων ταυτα επορευετο εμπροσθεν αναβαινων εις ιεροσολυμα
Luke 19:28 And when he had thus spoken, he went before, ascending up to Jerusalem.
Luke 19:29 και εγενετο ως ηγγισεν εις βηθφαγη και βηθανιαν προς το ορος το καλουμενον ελαιων απεστειλεν δυο των μαθητων αυτου
Luke 19:29 And it came to pass, when he was come nigh to Bethphage and Bethany, at the mount called the mount of Olives, he sent two of his disciples,
Luke 19:30 ειπων υπαγετε εις την κατεναντι κωμην εν η εισπορευομενοι ευρησετε πωλον δεδεμενον εφ ον ουδεις πωποτε ανθρωπων εκαθισεν λυσαντες αυτον αγαγετε
Luke 19:30 Saying, Go ye into the village over against you; in the which at your entering ye shall find a colt tied, whereon yet never man sat: loose him, and bring him hither.
Luke 19:31 και εαν τις υμας ερωτα διατι λυετε ουτως ερειτε αυτω οτι ο κυριος αυτου χρειαν εχει
Luke 19:31 And if any man ask you, Why do ye loose him? thus shall ye say unto him, Because the Lord hath need of him.
Luke 19:32 απελθοντες δε οι απεσταλμενοι ευρον καθως ειπεν αυτοις
Luke 19:32 And they that were sent went their way, and found even as he had said unto them.
Luke 19:33 λυοντων δε αυτων τον πωλον ειπον οι κυριοι αυτου προς αυτους τι λυετε τον πωλον
Luke 19:33 And as they were loosing the colt, the owners thereof said unto them, Why loose ye the colt?
Luke 19:34 οι δε ειπον ο κυριος αυτου χρειαν εχει
Luke 19:34 And they said, The Lord hath need of him.
Luke 19:35 και ηγαγον αυτον προς τον ιησουν και επιρριψαντες εαυτων τα ιματια επι τον πωλον επεβιβασαν τον ιησουν
Luke 19:35 And they brought him to Jesus: and they cast their garments upon the colt, and they set Jesus thereon.
Luke 19:36 πορευομενου δε αυτου υπεστρωννυον τα ιματια αυτων εν τη οδω
Luke 19:36 And as he went, they spread their clothes in the way.
Luke 19:37 εγγιζοντος δε αυτου ηδη προς τη καταβασει του ορους των ελαιων ηρξαντο απαν το πληθος των μαθητων χαιροντες αινειν τον θεον φωνη μεγαλη περι πασων ων ειδον δυναμεων
Luke 19:37 And when he was come nigh, even now at the descent of the mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice for all the mighty works that they had seen;
Luke 19:38 λεγοντες ευλογημενος ο ερχομενος βασιλευς εν ονοματι κυριου ειρηνη εν ουρανω και δοξα εν υψιστοις
Luke 19:38 Saying, Blessed be the King that cometh in the name of the Lord: peace in heaven, and glory in the highest.
Luke 19:39 και τινες των φαρισαιων απο του οχλου ειπον προς αυτον διδασκαλε επιτιμησον τοις μαθηταις σου
Luke 19:39 And some of the Pharisees from among the multitude said unto him, Master, rebuke thy disciples.
Luke 19:40 και αποκριθεις ειπεν αυτοις λεγω υμιν οτι εαν ουτοι σιωπησωσιν οι λιθοι κεκραξονται
Luke 19:40 And he answered and said unto them, I tell you that, if these should hold their peace, the stones would immediately cry out.
Luke 19:41 και ως ηγγισεν ιδων την πολιν εκλαυσεν επ αυτη
Luke 19:41 And when he was come near, he beheld the city, and wept over it,
Luke 19:42 λεγων οτι ει εγνως και συ και γε εν τη ημερα σου ταυτη τα προς ειρηνην σου νυν δε εκρυβη απο οφθαλμων σου
Luke 19:42 Saying, If thou hadst known, even thou, at least in this thy day, the things which belong unto thy peace! but now they are hid from thine eyes.
Luke 19:43 οτι ηξουσιν ημεραι επι σε και περιβαλουσιν οι εχθροι σου χαρακα σοι και περικυκλωσουσιν σε και συνεξουσιν σε παντοθεν
Luke 19:43 For the days shall come upon thee, that thine enemies shall cast a trench about thee, and compass thee round, and keep thee in on every side,
Luke 19:44 και εδαφιουσιν σε και τα τεκνα σου εν σοι και ουκ αφησουσιν εν σοι λιθον επι λιθω ανθ ων ουκ εγνως τον καιρον της επισκοπης σου
Luke 19:44 And shall lay thee even with the ground, and thy children within thee; and they shall not leave in thee one stone upon another; because thou knewest not the time of thy visitation.
Luke 19:45 και εισελθων εις το ιερον ηρξατο εκβαλλειν τους πωλουντας εν αυτω και αγοραζοντας
Luke 19:45 And he went into the temple, and began to cast out them that sold therein, and them that bought;
Luke 19:46 λεγων αυτοις γεγραπται ο οικος μου οικος προσευχης εστιν υμεις δε αυτον εποιησατε σπηλαιον ληστων
Luke 19:46 Saying unto them, It is written, My house is the house of prayer: but ye have made it a den of thieves.
Luke 19:47 και ην διδασκων το καθ ημεραν εν τω ιερω οι δε αρχιερεις και οι γραμματεις εζητουν αυτον απολεσαι και οι πρωτοι του λαου
Luke 19:47 And he taught daily in the temple. But the chief priests and the scribes and the chief of the people sought to destroy him,
Luke 19:48 και ουχ ευρισκον το τι ποιησωσιν ο λαος γαρ απας εξεκρεματο αυτου ακουων
Luke 19:48 And could not find what they might do: for all the people were very attentive to hear him.
Luke 20:1 και εγενετο εν μια των ημερων εκεινων διδασκοντος αυτου τον λαον εν τω ιερω και ευαγγελιζομενου επεστησαν οι αρχιερεις και οι γραμματεις συν τοις πρεσβυτεροις
Luke 20:1 And it came to pass, that on one of those days, as he taught the people in the temple, and preached the gospel, the chief priests and the scribes came upon him with the elders,
Luke 20:2 και ειπον προς αυτον λεγοντες ειπε ημιν εν ποια εξουσια ταυτα ποιεις η τις εστιν ο δους σοι την εξουσιαν ταυτην
Luke 20:2 And spake unto him, saying, Tell us, by what authority doest thou these things? or who is he that gave thee this authority?
Luke 20:3 αποκριθεις δε ειπεν προς αυτους ερωτησω υμας καγω ενα λογον και ειπατε μοι
Luke 20:3 And he answered and said unto them, I will also ask you one thing; and answer me:
Luke 20:4 το βαπτισμα ιωαννου εξ ουρανου ην η εξ ανθρωπων
Luke 20:4 The baptism of John, was it from heaven, or of men?
Luke 20:5 οι δε συνελογισαντο προς εαυτους λεγοντες οτι εαν ειπωμεν εξ ουρανου ερει διατι ουν ουκ επιστευσατε αυτω
Luke 20:5 And they reasoned with themselves, saying, If we shall say, From heaven; he will say, Why then believed ye him not?
Luke 20:6 εαν δε ειπωμεν εξ ανθρωπων πας ο λαος καταλιθασει ημας πεπεισμενος γαρ εστιν ιωαννην προφητην ειναι
Luke 20:6 But and if we say, Of men; all the people will stone us: for they be persuaded that John was a prophet.
Luke 20:7 και απεκριθησαν μη ειδεναι ποθεν
Luke 20:7 And they answered, that they could not tell whence it was.
Luke 20:8 και ο ιησους ειπεν αυτοις ουδε εγω λεγω υμιν εν ποια εξουσια ταυτα ποιω
Luke 20:8 And Jesus said unto them, Neither tell I you by what authority I do these things.
Luke 20:9 ηρξατο δε προς τον λαον λεγειν την παραβολην ταυτην ανθρωπος τις εφυτευσεν αμπελωνα και εξεδοτο αυτον γεωργοις και απεδημησεν χρονους ικανους
Luke 20:9 Then began he to speak to the people this parable; A certain man planted a vineyard, and let it forth to husbandmen, and went into a far country for a long time.
Luke 20:10 και εν καιρω απεστειλεν προς τους γεωργους δουλον ινα απο του καρπου του αμπελωνος δωσιν αυτω οι δε γεωργοι δειραντες αυτον εξαπεστειλαν κενον
Luke 20:10 And at the season he sent a servant to the husbandmen, that they should give him of the fruit of the vineyard: but the husbandmen beat him, and sent him away empty.
Luke 20:11 και προσεθετο πεμψαι ετερον δουλον οι δε κακεινον δειραντες και ατιμασαντες εξαπεστειλαν κενον
Luke 20:11 And again he sent another servant: and they beat him also, and entreated him shamefully, and sent him away empty.
Luke 20:12 και προσεθετο πεμψαι τριτον οι δε και τουτον τραυματισαντες εξεβαλον
Luke 20:12 And again he sent a third: and they wounded him also, and cast him out.
Luke 20:13 ειπεν δε ο κυριος του αμπελωνος τι ποιησω πεμψω τον υιον μου τον αγαπητον ισως τουτον ιδοντες εντραπησονται
Luke 20:13 Then said the lord of the vineyard, What shall I do? I will send my beloved son: it may be they will reverence him when they see him.
Luke 20:14 ιδοντες δε αυτον οι γεωργοι διελογιζοντο προς εαυτους λεγοντες ουτος εστιν ο κληρονομος δευτε αποκτεινωμεν αυτον ινα ημων γενηται η κληρονομια
Luke 20:14 But when the husbandmen saw him, they reasoned among themselves, saying, This is the heir: come, let us kill him, that the inheritance may be ours.
Luke 20:15 και εκβαλοντες αυτον εξω του αμπελωνος απεκτειναν τι ουν ποιησει αυτοις ο κυριος του αμπελωνος
Luke 20:15 So they cast him out of the vineyard, and killed him. What therefore shall the lord of the vineyard do unto them?
Luke 20:16 ελευσεται και απολεσει τους γεωργους τουτους και δωσει τον αμπελωνα αλλοις ακουσαντες δε ειπον μη γενοιτο
Luke 20:16 He shall come and destroy these husbandmen, and shall give the vineyard to others. And when they heard it, they said, God forbid.
Luke 20:17 ο δε εμβλεψας αυτοις ειπεν τι ουν εστιν το γεγραμμενον τουτο λιθον ον απεδοκιμασαν οι οικοδομουντες ουτος εγενηθη εις κεφαλην γωνιας
Luke 20:17 And he beheld them, and said, What is this then that is written, The stone which the builders rejected, the same is become the head of the corner?
Luke 20:18 πας ο πεσων επ εκεινον τον λιθον συνθλασθησεται εφ ον δ αν πεση λικμησει αυτον
Luke 20:18 Whosoever shall fall upon that stone shall be broken; but on whomsoever it shall fall, it will grind him to powder.
Luke 20:19 και εζητησαν οι αρχιερεις και οι γραμματεις επιβαλειν επ αυτον τας χειρας εν αυτη τη ωρα και εφοβηθησαν τον λαον εγνωσαν γαρ οτι προς αυτους την παραβολην ταυτην ειπεν
Luke 20:19 And the chief priests and the scribes the same hour sought to lay hands on him; and they feared the people: for they perceived that he had spoken this parable against them.
Luke 20:20 και παρατηρησαντες απεστειλαν εγκαθετους υποκρινομενους εαυτους δικαιους ειναι ινα επιλαβωνται αυτου λογου εις το παραδουναι αυτον τη αρχη και τη εξουσια του ηγεμονος
Luke 20:20 And they watched him, and sent forth spies, which should feign themselves just men, that they might take hold of his words, that so they might deliver him unto the power and authority of the governor.
Luke 20:21 και επηρωτησαν αυτον λεγοντες διδασκαλε οιδαμεν οτι ορθως λεγεις και διδασκεις και ου λαμβανεις προσωπον αλλ επ αληθειας την οδον του θεου διδασκεις
Luke 20:21 And they asked him, saying, Master, we know that thou sayest and teachest rightly, neither acceptest thou the person of any, but teachest the way of God truly:
Luke 20:22 εξεστιν ημιν καισαρι φορον δουναι η ου
Luke 20:22 Is it lawful for us to give tribute unto Caesar, or no?
Luke 20:23 κατανοησας δε αυτων την πανουργιαν ειπεν προς αυτους τι με πειραζετε
Luke 20:23 But he perceived their craftiness, and said unto them, Why tempt ye me?
Luke 20:24 επιδειξατε μοι δηναριον τινος εχει εικονα και επιγραφην αποκριθεντες δε ειπον καισαρος
Luke 20:24 Shew me a penny. Whose image and superscription hath it? They answered and said, Caesar's.
Luke 20:25 ο δε ειπεν αυτοις αποδοτε τοινυν τα καισαρος καισαρι και τα του θεου τω θεω
Luke 20:25 And he said unto them, Render therefore unto Caesar the things which be Caesar's, and unto God the things which be God's.
Luke 20:26 και ουκ ισχυσαν επιλαβεσθαι αυτου ρηματος εναντιον του λαου και θαυμασαντες επι τη αποκρισει αυτου εσιγησαν
Luke 20:26 And they could not take hold of his words before the people: and they marvelled at his answer, and held their peace.
Luke 20:27 προσελθοντες δε τινες των σαδδουκαιων οι αντιλεγοντες αναστασιν μη ειναι επηρωτησαν αυτον
Luke 20:27 Then came to him certain of the Sadducees, which deny that there is any resurrection; and they asked him,
Luke 20:28 λεγοντες διδασκαλε μωσης εγραψεν ημιν εαν τινος αδελφος αποθανη εχων γυναικα και ουτος ατεκνος αποθανη ινα λαβη ο αδελφος αυτου την γυναικα και εξαναστηση σπερμα τω αδελφω αυτου
Luke 20:28 Saying, Master, Moses wrote unto us, If any man's brother die, having a wife, and he die without children, that his brother should take his wife, and raise up seed unto his brother.
Luke 20:29 επτα ουν αδελφοι ησαν και ο πρωτος λαβων γυναικα απεθανεν ατεκνος
Luke 20:29 There were therefore seven brethren: and the first took a wife, and died without children.
Luke 20:30 και ελαβεν ο δευτερος την γυναικα και ουτος απεθανεν ατεκνος
Luke 20:30 And the second took her to wife, and he died childless.
Luke 20:31 και ο τριτος ελαβεν αυτην ωσαυτως δε και οι επτα ου κατελιπον τεκνα και απεθανον
Luke 20:31 And the third took her; and in like manner the seven also: and they left no children, and died.
Luke 20:32 υστερον δε παντων απεθανεν και η γυνη
Luke 20:32 Last of all the woman died also.
Luke 20:33 εν τη ουν αναστασει τινος αυτων γινεται γυνη οι γαρ επτα εσχον αυτην γυναικα
Luke 20:33 Therefore in the resurrection whose wife of them is she? for seven had her to wife.
Luke 20:34 και αποκριθεις ειπεν αυτοις ο ιησους οι υιοι του αιωνος τουτου γαμουσιν και εκγαμισκονται
Luke 20:34 And Jesus answering said unto them, The children of this world marry, and are given in marriage:
Luke 20:35 οι δε καταξιωθεντες του αιωνος εκεινου τυχειν και της αναστασεως της εκ νεκρων ουτε γαμουσιν ουτε εκγαμισκονται
Luke 20:35 But they which shall be accounted worthy to obtain that world, and the resurrection from the dead, neither marry, nor are given in marriage:
Luke 20:36 ουτε γαρ αποθανειν ετι δυνανται ισαγγελοι γαρ εισιν και υιοι εισιν του θεου της αναστασεως υιοι οντες
Luke 20:36 Neither can they die any more: for they are equal unto the angels; and are the children of God, being the children of the resurrection.
Luke 20:37 οτι δε εγειρονται οι νεκροι και μωσης εμηνυσεν επι της βατου ως λεγει κυριον τον θεον αβρααμ και τον θεον ισαακ και τον θεον ιακωβ
Luke 20:37 Now that the dead are raised, even Moses shewed at the bush, when he calleth the Lord the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob.
Luke 20:38 θεος δε ουκ εστιν νεκρων αλλα ζωντων παντες γαρ αυτω ζωσιν
Luke 20:38 For he is not a God of the dead, but of the living: for all live unto him.
Luke 20:39 αποκριθεντες δε τινες των γραμματεων ειπον διδασκαλε καλως ειπας
Luke 20:39 Then certain of the scribes answering said, Master, thou hast well said.
Luke 20:40 ουκετι δε ετολμων επερωταν αυτον ουδεν
Luke 20:40 And after that they durst not ask him any question at all.
Luke 20:41 ειπεν δε προς αυτους πως λεγουσιν τον χριστον υιον δαβιδ ειναι
Luke 20:41 And he said unto them, How say they that Christ is David's son?
Luke 20:42 και αυτος δαβιδ λεγει εν βιβλω ψαλμων ειπεν ο κυριος τω κυριω μου καθου εκ δεξιων μου
Luke 20:42 And David himself saith in the book of Psalms, The LORD said unto my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand,
Luke 20:43 εως αν θω τους εχθρους σου υποποδιον των ποδων σου
Luke 20:43 Till I make thine enemies thy footstool.
Luke 20:44 δαβιδ ουν κυριον αυτον καλει και πως υιος αυτου εστιν
Luke 20:44 David therefore calleth him Lord, how is he then his son?
Luke 20:45 ακουοντος δε παντος του λαου ειπεν τοις μαθηταις αυτου
Luke 20:45 Then in the audience of all the people he said unto his disciples,
Luke 20:46 προσεχετε απο των γραμματεων των θελοντων περιπατειν εν στολαις και φιλουντων ασπασμους εν ταις αγοραις και πρωτοκαθεδριας εν ταις συναγωγαις και πρωτοκλισιας εν τοις δειπνοις
Luke 20:46 Beware of the scribes, which desire to walk in long robes, and love greetings in the markets, and the highest seats in the synagogues, and the chief rooms at feasts;
Luke 20:47 οι κατεσθιουσιν τας οικιας των χηρων και προφασει μακρα προσευχονται ουτοι ληψονται περισσοτερον κριμα
Luke 20:47 Which devour widows' houses, and for a shew make long prayers: the same shall receive greater damnation.
Luke 21:1 αναβλεψας δε ειδεν τους βαλλοντας τα δωρα αυτων εις το γαζοφυλακιον πλουσιους
Luke 21:1 And he looked up, and saw the rich men casting their gifts into the treasury.
Luke 21:2 ειδεν δε και τινα χηραν πενιχραν βαλλουσαν εκει δυο λεπτα
Luke 21:2 And he saw also a certain poor widow casting in thither two mites.
Luke 21:3 και ειπεν αληθως λεγω υμιν οτι η χηρα η πτωχη αυτη πλειον παντων εβαλεν
Luke 21:3 And he said, Of a truth I say unto you, that this poor widow hath cast in more than they all:
Luke 21:4 απαντες γαρ ουτοι εκ του περισσευοντος αυτοις εβαλον εις τα δωρα του θεου αυτη δε εκ του υστερηματος αυτης απαντα τον βιον ον ειχεν εβαλεν
Luke 21:4 For all these have of their abundance cast in unto the offerings of God: but she of her penury hath cast in all the living that she had.
Luke 21:5 και τινων λεγοντων περι του ιερου οτι λιθοις καλοις και αναθημασιν κεκοσμηται ειπεν
Luke 21:5 And as some spake of the temple, how it was adorned with goodly stones and gifts, he said,
Luke 21:6 ταυτα α θεωρειτε ελευσονται ημεραι εν αις ουκ αφεθησεται λιθος επι λιθω ος ου καταλυθησεται
Luke 21:6 As for these things which ye behold, the days will come, in the which there shall not be left one stone upon another, that shall not be thrown down.
Luke 21:7 επηρωτησαν δε αυτον λεγοντες διδασκαλε ποτε ουν ταυτα εσται και τι το σημειον οταν μελλη ταυτα γινεσθαι
Luke 21:7 And they asked him, saying, Master, but when shall these things be? and what sign will there be when these things shall come to pass?
Luke 21:8 ο δε ειπεν βλεπετε μη πλανηθητε πολλοι γαρ ελευσονται επι τω ονοματι μου λεγοντες οτι εγω ειμι και ο καιρος ηγγικεν μη ουν πορευθητε οπισω αυτων
Luke 21:8 And he said, Take heed that ye be not deceived: for many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ; and the time draweth near: go ye not therefore after them.
Luke 21:9 οταν δε ακουσητε πολεμους και ακαταστασιας μη πτοηθητε δει γαρ ταυτα γενεσθαι πρωτον αλλ ουκ ευθεως το τελος
Luke 21:9 But when ye shall hear of wars and commotions, be not terrified: for these things must first come to pass; but the end is not by and by.
Luke 21:10 τοτε ελεγεν αυτοις εγερθησεται εθνος επι εθνος και βασιλεια επι βασιλειαν
Luke 21:10 Then said he unto them, Nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom:
Luke 21:11 σεισμοι τε μεγαλοι κατα τοπους και λιμοι και λοιμοι εσονται φοβητρα τε και σημεια απ ουρανου μεγαλα εσται
Luke 21:11 And great earthquakes shall be in divers places, and famines, and pestilences; and fearful sights and great signs shall there be from heaven.
Luke 21:12 προ δε τουτων απαντων επιβαλουσιν εφ υμας τας χειρας αυτων και διωξουσιν παραδιδοντες εις συναγωγας και φυλακας αγομενους επι βασιλεις και ηγεμονας ενεκεν του ονοματος μου
Luke 21:12 But before all these, they shall lay their hands on you, and persecute you, delivering you up to the synagogues, and into prisons, being brought before kings and rulers for my name's sake.
Luke 21:13 αποβησεται δε υμιν εις μαρτυριον
Luke 21:13 And it shall turn to you for a testimony.
Luke 21:14 θεσθε ουν εις τας καρδιας υμων μη προμελεταν απολογηθηναι
Luke 21:14 Settle it therefore in your hearts, not to meditate before what ye shall answer:
Luke 21:15 εγω γαρ δωσω υμιν στομα και σοφιαν η ου δυνησονται αντειπειν ουδε αντιστηναι παντες οι αντικειμενοι υμιν
Luke 21:15 For I will give you a mouth and wisdom, which all your adversaries shall not be able to gainsay nor resist.
Luke 21:16 παραδοθησεσθε δε και υπο γονεων και αδελφων και συγγενων και φιλων και θανατωσουσιν εξ υμων
Luke 21:16 And ye shall be betrayed both by parents, and brethren, and kinsfolks, and friends; and some of you shall they cause to be put to death.
Luke 21:17 και εσεσθε μισουμενοι υπο παντων δια το ονομα μου
Luke 21:17 And ye shall be hated of all men for my name's sake.
Luke 21:18 και θριξ εκ της κεφαλης υμων ου μη αποληται
Luke 21:18 But there shall not an hair of your head perish.
Luke 21:19 εν τη υπομονη υμων κτησασθε τας ψυχας υμων
Luke 21:19 In your patience possess ye your souls.
Luke 21:20 οταν δε ιδητε κυκλουμενην υπο στρατοπεδων την ιερουσαλημ τοτε γνωτε οτι ηγγικεν η ερημωσις αυτης
Luke 21:20 And when ye shall see Jerusalem compassed with armies, then know that the desolation thereof is nigh.
Luke 21:21 τοτε οι εν τη ιουδαια φευγετωσαν εις τα ορη και οι εν μεσω αυτης εκχωρειτωσαν και οι εν ταις χωραις μη εισερχεσθωσαν εις αυτην
Luke 21:21 Then let them which are in Judaea flee to the mountains; and let them which are in the midst of it depart out; and let not them that are in the countries enter thereinto.
Luke 21:22 οτι ημεραι εκδικησεως αυται εισιν του πληρωθηναι παντα τα γεγραμμενα
Luke 21:22 For these be the days of vengeance, that all things which are written may be fulfilled.
Luke 21:23 ουαι δε ταις εν γαστρι εχουσαις και ταις θηλαζουσαις εν εκειναις ταις ημεραις εσται γαρ αναγκη μεγαλη επι της γης και οργη εν τω λαω τουτω
Luke 21:23 But woe unto them that are with child, and to them that give suck, in those days! for there shall be great distress in the land, and wrath upon this people.
Luke 21:24 και πεσουνται στοματι μαχαιρας και αιχμαλωτισθησονται εις παντα τα εθνη και ιερουσαλημ εσται πατουμενη υπο εθνων αχρι πληρωθωσιν καιροι εθνων
Luke 21:24 And they shall fall by the edge of the sword, and shall be led away captive into all nations: and Jerusalem shall be trodden down of the Gentiles, until the times of the Gentiles be fulfilled.
Luke 21:25 και εσται σημεια εν ηλιω και σεληνη και αστροις και επι της γης συνοχη εθνων εν απορια ηχουσης θαλασσης και σαλου
Luke 21:25 And there shall be signs in the sun, and in the moon, and in the stars; and upon the earth distress of nations, with perplexity; the sea and the waves roaring;
Luke 21:26 αποψυχοντων ανθρωπων απο φοβου και προσδοκιας των επερχομενων τη οικουμενη αι γαρ δυναμεις των ουρανων σαλευθησονται
Luke 21:26 Men's hearts failing them for fear, and for looking after those things which are coming on the earth: for the powers of heaven shall be shaken.
Luke 21:27 και τοτε οψονται τον υιον του ανθρωπου ερχομενον εν νεφελη μετα δυναμεως και δοξης πολλης
Luke 21:27 And then shall they see the Son of man coming in a cloud with power and great glory.
Luke 21:28 αρχομενων δε τουτων γινεσθαι ανακυψατε και επαρατε τας κεφαλας υμων διοτι εγγιζει η απολυτρωσις υμων
Luke 21:28 And when these things begin to come to pass, then look up, and lift up your heads; for your redemption draweth nigh.
Luke 21:29 και ειπεν παραβολην αυτοις ιδετε την συκην και παντα τα δενδρα
Luke 21:29 And he spake to them a parable; Behold the fig tree, and all the trees;
Luke 21:30 οταν προβαλωσιν ηδη βλεποντες αφ εαυτων γινωσκετε οτι ηδη εγγυς το θερος εστιν
Luke 21:30 When they now shoot forth, ye see and know of your own selves that summer is now nigh at hand.
Luke 21:31 ουτως και υμεις οταν ιδητε ταυτα γινομενα γινωσκετε οτι εγγυς εστιν η βασιλεια του θεου
Luke 21:31 So likewise ye, when ye see these things come to pass, know ye that the kingdom of God is nigh at hand.
Luke 21:32 αμην λεγω υμιν οτι ου μη παρελθη η γενεα αυτη εως αν παντα γενηται
Luke 21:32 Verily I say unto you, This generation shall not pass away, till all be fulfilled.
Luke 21:33 ο ουρανος και η γη παρελευσονται οι δε λογοι μου ου μη παρελθωσιν
Luke 21:33 Heaven and earth shall pass away: but my words shall not pass away.
Luke 21:34 προσεχετε δε εαυτοις μηποτε βαρυνθωσιν υμων αι καρδιαι εν κραιπαλη και μεθη και μεριμναις βιωτικαις και αιφνιδιος εφ υμας επιστη η ημερα εκεινη
Luke 21:34 And take heed to yourselves, lest at any time your hearts be overcharged with surfeiting, and drunkenness, and cares of this life, and so that day come upon you unawares.
Luke 21:35 ως παγις γαρ επελευσεται επι παντας τους καθημενους επι προσωπον πασης της γης
Luke 21:35 For as a snare shall it come on all them that dwell on the face of the whole earth.
Luke 21:36 αγρυπνειτε ουν εν παντι καιρω δεομενοι ινα καταξιωθητε εκφυγειν ταυτα παντα τα μελλοντα γινεσθαι και σταθηναι εμπροσθεν του υιου του ανθρωπου
Luke 21:36 Watch ye therefore, and pray always, that ye may be accounted worthy to escape all these things that shall come to pass, and to stand before the Son of man.
Luke 21:37 ην δε τας ημερας εν τω ιερω διδασκων τας δε νυκτας εξερχομενος ηυλιζετο εις το ορος το καλουμενον ελαιων
Luke 21:37 And in the day time he was teaching in the temple; and at night he went out, and abode in the mount that is called the mount of Olives.
Luke 21:38 και πας ο λαος ωρθριζεν προς αυτον εν τω ιερω ακουειν αυτου
Luke 21:38 And all the people came early in the morning to him in the temple, for to hear him.
Luke 22:1 ηγγιζεν δε η εορτη των αζυμων η λεγομενη πασχα
Luke 22:1 Now the feast of unleavened bread drew nigh, which is called the Passover.
Luke 22:2 και εζητουν οι αρχιερεις και οι γραμματεις το πως ανελωσιν αυτον εφοβουντο γαρ τον λαον
Luke 22:2 And the chief priests and scribes sought how they might kill him; for they feared the people.
Luke 22:3 εισηλθεν δε ο σατανας εις ιουδαν τον επικαλουμενον ισκαριωτην οντα εκ του αριθμου των δωδεκα
Luke 22:3 Then entered Satan into Judas surnamed Iscariot, being of the number of the twelve.
Luke 22:4 και απελθων συνελαλησεν τοις αρχιερευσιν και τοις στρατηγοις το πως αυτον παραδω αυτοις
Luke 22:4 And he went his way, and communed with the chief priests and captains, how he might betray him unto them.
Luke 22:5 και εχαρησαν και συνεθεντο αυτω αργυριον δουναι
Luke 22:5 And they were glad, and covenanted to give him money.
Luke 22:6 και εξωμολογησεν και εζητει ευκαιριαν του παραδουναι αυτον αυτοις ατερ οχλου
Luke 22:6 And he promised, and sought opportunity to betray him unto them in the absence of the multitude.
Luke 22:7 ηλθεν δε η ημερα των αζυμων εν η εδει θυεσθαι το πασχα
Luke 22:7 Then came the day of unleavened bread, when the passover must be killed.
Luke 22:8 και απεστειλεν πετρον και ιωαννην ειπων πορευθεντες ετοιμασατε ημιν το πασχα ινα φαγωμεν
Luke 22:8 And he sent Peter and John, saying, Go and prepare us the passover, that we may eat.
Luke 22:9 οι δε ειπον αυτω που θελεις ετοιμασωμεν
Luke 22:9 And they said unto him, Where wilt thou that we prepare?
Luke 22:10 ο δε ειπεν αυτοις ιδου εισελθοντων υμων εις την πολιν συναντησει υμιν ανθρωπος κεραμιον υδατος βασταζων ακολουθησατε αυτω εις την οικιαν ου εισπορευεται
Luke 22:10 And he said unto them, Behold, when ye are entered into the city, there shall a man meet you, bearing a pitcher of water; follow him into the house where he entereth in.
Luke 22:11 και ερειτε τω οικοδεσποτη της οικιας λεγει σοι ο διδασκαλος που εστιν το καταλυμα οπου το πασχα μετα των μαθητων μου φαγω
Luke 22:11 And ye shall say unto the goodman of the house, The Master saith unto thee, Where is the guestchamber, where I shall eat the passover with my disciples?
Luke 22:12 κακεινος υμιν δειξει ανωγεον μεγα εστρωμενον εκει ετοιμασατε
Luke 22:12 And he shall shew you a large upper room furnished: there make ready.
Luke 22:13 απελθοντες δε ευρον καθως ειρηκεν αυτοις και ητοιμασαν το πασχα
Luke 22:13 And they went, and found as he had said unto them: and they made ready the passover.
Luke 22:14 και οτε εγενετο η ωρα ανεπεσεν και οι δωδεκα αποστολοι συν αυτω
Luke 22:14 And when the hour was come, he sat down, and the twelve apostles with him.
Luke 22:15 και ειπεν προς αυτους επιθυμια επεθυμησα τουτο το πασχα φαγειν μεθ υμων προ του με παθειν
Luke 22:15 And he said unto them, With desire I have desired to eat this passover with you before I suffer:
Luke 22:16 λεγω γαρ υμιν οτι ουκετι ου μη φαγω εξ αυτου εως οτου πληρωθη εν τη βασιλεια του θεου
Luke 22:16 For I say unto you, I will not any more eat thereof, until it be fulfilled in the kingdom of God.
Luke 22:17 και δεξαμενος ποτηριον ευχαριστησας ειπεν λαβετε τουτο και διαμερισατε εαυτοις
Luke 22:17 And he took the cup, and gave thanks, and said, Take this, and divide it among yourselves:
Luke 22:18 λεγω γαρ υμιν οτι ου μη πιω απο του γεννηματος της αμπελου εως οτου η βασιλεια του θεου ελθη
Luke 22:18 For I say unto you, I will not drink of the fruit of the vine, until the kingdom of God shall come.
Luke 22:19 και λαβων αρτον ευχαριστησας εκλασεν και εδωκεν αυτοις λεγων τουτο εστιν το σωμα μου το υπερ υμων διδομενον τουτο ποιειτε εις την εμην αναμνησιν
Luke 22:19 And he took bread, and gave thanks, and brake it, and gave unto them, saying, This is my body which is given for you: this do in remembrance of me.
Luke 22:20 ωσαυτως και το ποτηριον μετα το δειπνησαι λεγων τουτο το ποτηριον η καινη διαθηκη εν τω αιματι μου το υπερ υμων εκχυνομενον
Luke 22:20 Likewise also the cup after supper, saying, This cup is the new testament in my blood, which is shed for you.
Luke 22:21 πλην ιδου η χειρ του παραδιδοντος με μετ εμου επι της τραπεζης
Luke 22:21 But, behold, the hand of him that betrayeth me is with me on the table.
Luke 22:22 και ο μεν υιος του ανθρωπου πορευεται κατα το ωρισμενον πλην ουαι τω ανθρωπω εκεινω δι ου παραδιδοται
Luke 22:22 And truly the Son of man goeth, as it was determined: but woe unto that man by whom he is betrayed!
Luke 22:23 και αυτοι ηρξαντο συζητειν προς εαυτους το τις αρα ειη εξ αυτων ο τουτο μελλων πρασσειν
Luke 22:23 And they began to enquire among themselves, which of them it was that should do this thing.
Luke 22:24 εγενετο δε και φιλονεικια εν αυτοις το τις αυτων δοκει ειναι μειζων
Luke 22:24 And there was also a strife among them, which of them should be accounted the greatest.
Luke 22:25 ο δε ειπεν αυτοις οι βασιλεις των εθνων κυριευουσιν αυτων και οι εξουσιαζοντες αυτων ευεργεται καλουνται
Luke 22:25 And he said unto them, The kings of the Gentiles exercise lordship over them; and they that exercise authority upon them are called benefactors.
Luke 22:26 υμεις δε ουχ ουτως αλλ ο μειζων εν υμιν γενεσθω ως ο νεωτερος και ο ηγουμενος ως ο διακονων
Luke 22:26 But ye shall not be so: but he that is greatest among you, let him be as the younger; and he that is chief, as he that doth serve.
Luke 22:27 τις γαρ μειζων ο ανακειμενος η ο διακονων ουχι ο ανακειμενος εγω δε ειμι εν μεσω υμων ως ο διακονων
Luke 22:27 For whether is greater, he that sitteth at meat, or he that serveth? is not he that sitteth at meat? but I am among you as he that serveth.
Luke 22:28 υμεις δε εστε οι διαμεμενηκοτες μετ εμου εν τοις πειρασμοις μου
Luke 22:28 Ye are they which have continued with me in my temptations.
Luke 22:29 καγω διατιθεμαι υμιν καθως διεθετο μοι ο πατηρ μου βασιλειαν
Luke 22:29 And I appoint unto you a kingdom, as my Father hath appointed unto me;
Luke 22:30 ινα εσθιητε και πινητε επι της τραπεζης μου εν τη βασιλεια μου και καθισησθε επι θρονων κρινοντες τας δωδεκα φυλας του ισραηλ
Luke 22:30 That ye may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom, and sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel.
Luke 22:31 ειπεν δε ο κυριος σιμων σιμων ιδου ο σατανας εξητησατο υμας του σινιασαι ως τον σιτον
Luke 22:31 And the Lord said, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan hath desired to have you, that he may sift you as wheat:
Luke 22:32 εγω δε εδεηθην περι σου ινα μη εκλειπη η πιστις σου και συ ποτε επιστρεψας στηριξον τους αδελφους σου
Luke 22:32 But I have prayed for thee, that thy faith fail not: and when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren.
Luke 22:33 ο δε ειπεν αυτω κυριε μετα σου ετοιμος ειμι και εις φυλακην και εις θανατον πορευεσθαι
Luke 22:33 And he said unto him, Lord, I am ready to go with thee, both into prison, and to death.
Luke 22:34 ο δε ειπεν λεγω σοι πετρε ου μη φωνησει σημερον αλεκτωρ πριν η τρις απαρνηση μη ειδεναι με
Luke 22:34 And he said, I tell thee, Peter, the cock shall not crow this day, before that thou shalt thrice deny that thou knowest me.
Luke 22:35 και ειπεν αυτοις οτε απεστειλα υμας ατερ βαλαντιου και πηρας και υποδηματων μη τινος υστερησατε οι δε ειπον ουδενος
Luke 22:35 And he said unto them, When I sent you without purse, and scrip, and shoes, lacked ye any thing? And they said, Nothing.
Luke 22:36 ειπεν ουν αυτοις αλλα νυν ο εχων βαλαντιον αρατω ομοιως και πηραν και ο μη εχων πωλησατω το ιματιον αυτου και αγορασατω μαχαιραν
Luke 22:36 Then said he unto them, But now, he that hath a purse, let him take it, and likewise his scrip: and he that hath no sword, let him sell his garment, and buy one.
Luke 22:37 λεγω γαρ υμιν οτι ετι τουτο το γεγραμμενον δει τελεσθηναι εν εμοι το και μετα ανομων ελογισθη και γαρ τα περι εμου τελος εχει
Luke 22:37 For I say unto you, that this that is written must yet be accomplished in me, And he was reckoned among the transgressors: for the things concerning me have an end.
Luke 22:38 οι δε ειπον κυριε ιδου μαχαιραι ωδε δυο ο δε ειπεν αυτοις ικανον εστιν
Luke 22:38 And they said, Lord, behold, here are two swords. And he said unto them, It is enough.
Luke 22:39 και εξελθων επορευθη κατα το εθος εις το ορος των ελαιων ηκολουθησαν δε αυτω και οι μαθηται αυτου
Luke 22:39 And he came out, and went, as he was wont, to the mount of Olives; and his disciples also followed him.
Luke 22:40 γενομενος δε επι του τοπου ειπεν αυτοις προσευχεσθε μη εισελθειν εις πειρασμον
Luke 22:40 And when he was at the place, he said unto them, Pray that ye enter not into temptation.
Luke 22:41 και αυτος απεσπασθη απ αυτων ωσει λιθου βολην και θεις τα γονατα προσηυχετο
Luke 22:41 And he was withdrawn from them about a stone's cast, and kneeled down, and prayed,
Luke 22:42 λεγων πατερ ει βουλει παρενεγκειν το ποτηριον τουτο απ εμου πλην μη το θελημα μου αλλα το σον γενεσθω
Luke 22:42 Saying, Father, if thou be willing, remove this cup from me: nevertheless not my will, but thine, be done.
Luke 22:43 ωφθη δε αυτω αγγελος απ ουρανου ενισχυων αυτον
Luke 22:43 And there appeared an angel unto him from heaven, strengthening him.
Luke 22:44 και γενομενος εν αγωνια εκτενεστερον προσηυχετο εγενετο δε ο ιδρως αυτου ωσει θρομβοι αιματος καταβαινοντες επι την γην
Luke 22:44 And being in an agony he prayed more earnestly: and his sweat was as it were great drops of blood falling down to the ground.
Luke 22:45 και αναστας απο της προσευχης ελθων προς τους μαθητας ευρεν αυτους κοιμωμενους απο της λυπης
Luke 22:45 And when he rose up from prayer, and was come to his disciples, he found them sleeping for sorrow,
Luke 22:46 και ειπεν αυτοις τι καθευδετε ανασταντες προσευχεσθε ινα μη εισελθητε εις πειρασμον
Luke 22:46 And said unto them, Why sleep ye? rise and pray, lest ye enter into temptation.
Luke 22:47 ετι δε αυτου λαλουντος ιδου οχλος και ο λεγομενος ιουδας εις των δωδεκα προηρχετο αυτων και ηγγισεν τω ιησου φιλησαι αυτον
Luke 22:47 And while he yet spake, behold a multitude, and he that was called Judas, one of the twelve, went before them, and drew near unto Jesus to kiss him.
Luke 22:48 ο δε ιησους ειπεν αυτω ιουδα φιληματι τον υιον του ανθρωπου παραδιδως
Luke 22:48 But Jesus said unto him, Judas, betrayest thou the Son of man with a kiss?
Luke 22:49 ιδοντες δε οι περι αυτον το εσομενον ειπον αυτω κυριε ει παταξομεν εν μαχαιρα
Luke 22:49 When they which were about him saw what would follow, they said unto him, Lord, shall we smite with the sword?
Luke 22:50 και επαταξεν εις τις εξ αυτων τον δουλον του αρχιερεως και αφειλεν αυτου το ους το δεξιον
Luke 22:50 And one of them smote the servant of the high priest, and cut off his right ear.
Luke 22:51 αποκριθεις δε ο ιησους ειπεν εατε εως τουτου και αψαμενος του ωτιου αυτου ιασατο αυτον
Luke 22:51 And Jesus answered and said, Suffer ye thus far. And he touched his ear, and healed him.
Luke 22:52 ειπεν δε ο ιησους προς τους παραγενομενους επ αυτον αρχιερεις και στρατηγους του ιερου και πρεσβυτερους ως επι ληστην εξεληλυθατε μετα μαχαιρων και ξυλων
Luke 22:52 Then Jesus said unto the chief priests, and captains of the temple, and the elders, which were come to him, Be ye come out, as against a thief, with swords and staves?
Luke 22:53 καθ ημεραν οντος μου μεθ υμων εν τω ιερω ουκ εξετεινατε τας χειρας επ εμε αλλ αυτη υμων εστιν η ωρα και η εξουσια του σκοτους
Luke 22:53 When I was daily with you in the temple, ye stretched forth no hands against me: but this is your hour, and the power of darkness.
Luke 22:54 συλλαβοντες δε αυτον ηγαγον και εισηγαγον αυτον εις τον οικον του αρχιερεως ο δε πετρος ηκολουθει μακροθεν
Luke 22:54 Then took they him, and led him, and brought him into the high priest's house. And Peter followed afar off.
Luke 22:55 αψαντων δε πυρ εν μεσω της αυλης και συγκαθισαντων αυτων εκαθητο ο πετρος εν μεσω αυτων
Luke 22:55 And when they had kindled a fire in the midst of the hall, and were set down together, Peter sat down among them.
Luke 22:56 ιδουσα δε αυτον παιδισκη τις καθημενον προς το φως και ατενισασα αυτω ειπεν και ουτος συν αυτω ην
Luke 22:56 But a certain maid beheld him as he sat by the fire, and earnestly looked upon him, and said, This man was also with him.
Luke 22:57 ο δε ηρνησατο αυτον λεγων γυναι ουκ οιδα αυτον
Luke 22:57 And he denied him, saying, Woman, I know him not.
Luke 22:58 και μετα βραχυ ετερος ιδων αυτον εφη και συ εξ αυτων ει ο δε πετρος ειπεν ανθρωπε ουκ ειμι
Luke 22:58 And after a little while another saw him, and said, Thou art also of them. And Peter said, Man, I am not.
Luke 22:59 και διαστασης ωσει ωρας μιας αλλος τις διισχυριζετο λεγων επ αληθειας και ουτος μετ αυτου ην και γαρ γαλιλαιος εστιν
Luke 22:59 And about the space of one hour after another confidently affirmed, saying, Of a truth this fellow also was with him: for he is a Galilaean.
Luke 22:60 ειπεν δε ο πετρος ανθρωπε ουκ οιδα ο λεγεις και παραχρημα ετι λαλουντος αυτου εφωνησεν ο αλεκτωρ
Luke 22:60 And Peter said, Man, I know not what thou sayest. And immediately, while he yet spake, the cock crew.
Luke 22:61 και στραφεις ο κυριος ενεβλεψεν τω πετρω και υπεμνησθη ο πετρος του λογου του κυριου ως ειπεν αυτω οτι πριν αλεκτορα φωνησαι απαρνηση με τρις
Luke 22:61 And the Lord turned, and looked upon Peter. And Peter remembered the word of the Lord, how he had said unto him, Before the cock crow, thou shalt deny me thrice.
Luke 22:62 και εξελθων εξω ο πετρος εκλαυσεν πικρως
Luke 22:62 And Peter went out, and wept bitterly.
Luke 22:63 και οι ανδρες οι συνεχοντες τον ιησουν ενεπαιζον αυτω δεροντες
Luke 22:63 And the men that held Jesus mocked him, and smote him.
Luke 22:64 και περικαλυψαντες αυτον ετυπτον αυτου το προσωπον και επηρωτων αυτον λεγοντες προφητευσον τις εστιν ο παισας σε
Luke 22:64 And when they had blindfolded him, they struck him on the face, and asked him, saying, Prophesy, who is it that smote thee?
Luke 22:65 και ετερα πολλα βλασφημουντες ελεγον εις αυτον
Luke 22:65 And many other things blasphemously spake they against him.
Luke 22:66 και ως εγενετο ημερα συνηχθη το πρεσβυτεριον του λαου αρχιερεις τε και γραμματεις και ανηγαγον αυτον εις το συνεδριον εαυτων λεγοντες
Luke 22:66 And as soon as it was day, the elders of the people and the chief priests and the scribes came together, and led him into their council, saying,
Luke 22:67 ει συ ει ο χριστος ειπε ημιν ειπεν δε αυτοις εαν υμιν ειπω ου μη πιστευσητε
Luke 22:67 Art thou the Christ? tell us. And he said unto them, If I tell you, ye will not believe:
Luke 22:68 εαν δε και ερωτησω ου μη αποκριθητε μοι η απολυσητε
Luke 22:68 And if I also ask you, ye will not answer me, nor let me go.
Luke 22:69 απο του νυν εσται ο υιος του ανθρωπου καθημενος εκ δεξιων της δυναμεως του θεου
Luke 22:69 Hereafter shall the Son of man sit on the right hand of the power of God.
Luke 22:70 ειπον δε παντες συ ουν ει ο υιος του θεου ο δε προς αυτους εφη υμεις λεγετε οτι εγω ειμι
Luke 22:70 Then said they all, Art thou then the Son of God? And he said unto them, Ye say that I am.
Luke 22:71 οι δε ειπον τι ετι χρειαν εχομεν μαρτυριας αυτοι γαρ ηκουσαμεν απο του στοματος αυτου
Luke 22:71 And they said, What need we any further witness? for we ourselves have heard of his own mouth.
Luke 23:1 και ανασταν απαν το πληθος αυτων ηγαγεν αυτον επι τον πιλατον
Luke 23:1 And the whole multitude of them arose, and led him unto Pilate.
Luke 23:2 ηρξαντο δε κατηγορειν αυτου λεγοντες τουτον ευρομεν διαστρεφοντα το εθνος και κωλυοντα καισαρι φορους διδοναι λεγοντα εαυτον χριστον βασιλεα ειναι
Luke 23:2 And they began to accuse him, saying, We found this fellow perverting the nation, and forbidding to give tribute to Caesar, saying that he himself is Christ a King.
Luke 23:3 ο δε πιλατος επηρωτησεν αυτον λεγων συ ει ο βασιλευς των ιουδαιων ο δε αποκριθεις αυτω εφη συ λεγεις
Luke 23:3 And Pilate asked him, saying, Art thou the King of the Jews?  And he answered him and said, Thou sayest it.
Luke 23:4 ο δε πιλατος ειπεν προς τους αρχιερεις και τους οχλους ουδεν ευρισκω αιτιον εν τω ανθρωπω τουτω
Luke 23:4 Then said Pilate to the chief priests and to the people, I find no fault in this man.
Luke 23:5 οι δε επισχυον λεγοντες οτι ανασειει τον λαον διδασκων καθ ολης της ιουδαιας αρξαμενος απο της γαλιλαιας εως ωδε
Luke 23:5 And they were the more fierce, saying, He stirreth up the people, teaching throughout all Jewry, beginning from Galilee to this place.
Luke 23:6 πιλατος δε ακουσας γαλιλαιαν επηρωτησεν ει ο ανθρωπος γαλιλαιος εστιν
Luke 23:6 When Pilate heard of Galilee, he asked whether the man were a Galilaean.
Luke 23:7 και επιγνους οτι εκ της εξουσιας ηρωδου εστιν ανεπεμψεν αυτον προς ηρωδην οντα και αυτον εν ιεροσολυμοις εν ταυταις ταις ημεραις
Luke 23:7 And as soon as he knew that he belonged unto Herod's jurisdiction, he sent him to Herod, who himself also was at Jerusalem at that time.
Luke 23:8 ο δε ηρωδης ιδων τον ιησουν εχαρη λιαν ην γαρ θελων εξ ικανου ιδειν αυτον δια το ακουειν πολλα περι αυτου και ηλπιζεν τι σημειον ιδειν υπ αυτου γινομενον
Luke 23:8 And when Herod saw Jesus, he was exceeding glad: for he was desirous to see him of a long season, because he had heard many things of him; and he hoped to have seen some miracle done by him.
Luke 23:9 επηρωτα δε αυτον εν λογοις ικανοις αυτος δε ουδεν απεκρινατο αυτω
Luke 23:9 Then he questioned with him in many words; but he answered him nothing.
Luke 23:10 ειστηκεισαν δε οι αρχιερεις και οι γραμματεις ευτονως κατηγορουντες αυτου
Luke 23:10 And the chief priests and scribes stood and vehemently accused him.
Luke 23:11 εξουθενησας δε αυτον ο ηρωδης συν τοις στρατευμασιν αυτου και εμπαιξας περιβαλων αυτον εσθητα λαμπραν ανεπεμψεν αυτον τω πιλατω
Luke 23:11 And Herod with his men of war set him at nought, and mocked him, and arrayed him in a gorgeous robe, and sent him again to Pilate.
Luke 23:12 εγενοντο δε φιλοι ο τε πιλατος και ο ηρωδης εν αυτη τη ημερα μετ αλληλων προυπηρχον γαρ εν εχθρα οντες προς εαυτους
Luke 23:12 And the same day Pilate and Herod were made friends together: for before they were at enmity between themselves.
Luke 23:13 πιλατος δε συγκαλεσαμενος τους αρχιερεις και τους αρχοντας και τον λαον
Luke 23:13 And Pilate, when he had called together the chief priests and the rulers and the people,
Luke 23:14 ειπεν προς αυτους προσηνεγκατε μοι τον ανθρωπον τουτον ως αποστρεφοντα τον λαον και ιδου εγω ενωπιον υμων ανακρινας ουδεν ευρον εν τω ανθρωπω τουτω αιτιον ων κατηγορειτε κατ αυτου
Luke 23:14 Said unto them, Ye have brought this man unto me, as one that perverteth the people: and, behold, I, having examined him before you, have found no fault in this man touching those things whereof ye accuse him:
Luke 23:15 αλλ ουδε ηρωδης ανεπεμψα γαρ υμας προς αυτον και ιδου ουδεν αξιον θανατου εστιν πεπραγμενον αυτω
Luke 23:15 No, nor yet Herod: for I sent you to him; and, lo, nothing worthy of death is done unto him.
Luke 23:16 παιδευσας ουν αυτον απολυσω
Luke 23:16 I will therefore chastise him, and release him.
Luke 23:17 αναγκην δε ειχεν απολυειν αυτοις κατα εορτην ενα
Luke 23:17 (For of necessity he must release one unto them at the feast.)
Luke 23:18 ανεκραξαν δε παμπληθει λεγοντες αιρε τουτον απολυσον δε ημιν τον βαραββαν
Luke 23:18 And they cried out all at once, saying, Away with this man, and release unto us Barabbas:
Luke 23:19 οστις ην δια στασιν τινα γενομενην εν τη πολει και φονον βεβλημενος εις φυλακην
Luke 23:19 (Who for a certain sedition made in the city, and for murder, was cast into prison.)
Luke 23:20 παλιν ουν ο πιλατος προσεφωνησεν θελων απολυσαι τον ιησουν
Luke 23:20 Pilate therefore, willing to release Jesus, spake again to them.
Luke 23:21 οι δε επεφωνουν λεγοντες σταυρωσον σταυρωσον αυτον
Luke 23:21 But they cried, saying, Crucify him, crucify him.
Luke 23:22 ο δε τριτον ειπεν προς αυτους τι γαρ κακον εποιησεν ουτος ουδεν αιτιον θανατου ευρον εν αυτω παιδευσας ουν αυτον απολυσω
Luke 23:22 And he said unto them the third time, Why, what evil hath he done? I have found no cause of death in him: I will therefore chastise him, and let him go.
Luke 23:23 οι δε επεκειντο φωναις μεγαλαις αιτουμενοι αυτον σταυρωθηναι και κατισχυον αι φωναι αυτων και των αρχιερεων
Luke 23:23 And they were instant with loud voices, requiring that he might be crucified. And the voices of them and of the chief priests prevailed.
Luke 23:24 ο δε πιλατος επεκρινεν γενεσθαι το αιτημα αυτων
Luke 23:24 And Pilate gave sentence that it should be as they required.
Luke 23:25 απελυσεν δε αυτοις τον δια στασιν και φονον βεβλημενον εις την φυλακην ον ητουντο τον δε ιησουν παρεδωκεν τω θεληματι αυτων
Luke 23:25 And he released unto them him that for sedition and murder was cast into prison, whom they had desired; but he delivered Jesus to their will.
Luke 23:26 και ως απηγαγον αυτον επιλαβομενοι σιμωνος τινος κυρηναιου του ερχομενου απ αγρου επεθηκαν αυτω τον σταυρον φερειν οπισθεν του ιησου
Luke 23:26 And as they led him away, they laid hold upon one Simon, a Cyrenian, coming out of the country, and on him they laid the cross, that he might bear it after Jesus.
Luke 23:27 ηκολουθει δε αυτω πολυ πληθος του λαου και γυναικων αι και εκοπτοντο και εθρηνουν αυτον
Luke 23:27 And there followed him a great company of people, and of women, which also bewailed and lamented him.
Luke 23:28 στραφεις δε προς αυτας ο ιησους ειπεν θυγατερες ιερουσαλημ μη κλαιετε επ εμε πλην εφ εαυτας κλαιετε και επι τα τεκνα υμων
Luke 23:28 But Jesus turning unto them said, Daughters of Jerusalem, weep not for me, but weep for yourselves, and for your children.
Luke 23:29 οτι ιδου ερχονται ημεραι εν αις ερουσιν μακαριαι αι στειραι και κοιλιαι αι ουκ εγεννησαν και μαστοι οι ουκ εθηλασαν
Luke 23:29 For, behold, the days are coming, in the which they shall say, Blessed are the barren, and the wombs that never bare, and the paps which never gave suck.
Luke 23:30 τοτε αρξονται λεγειν τοις ορεσιν πεσετε εφ ημας και τοις βουνοις καλυψατε ημας
Luke 23:30 Then shall they begin to say to the mountains, Fall on us; and to the hills, Cover us.
Luke 23:31 οτι ει εν τω υγρω ξυλω ταυτα ποιουσιν εν τω ξηρω τι γενηται
Luke 23:31 For if they do these things in a green tree, what shall be done in the dry?
Luke 23:32 ηγοντο δε και ετεροι δυο κακουργοι συν αυτω αναιρεθηναι
Luke 23:32 And there were also two other, malefactors, led with him to be put to death.
Luke 23:33 και οτε απηλθον επι τον τοπον τον καλουμενον κρανιον εκει εσταυρωσαν αυτον και τους κακουργους ον μεν εκ δεξιων ον δε εξ αριστερων
Luke 23:33 And when they were come to the place, which is called Calvary, there they crucified him, and the malefactors, one on the right hand, and the other on the left.
Luke 23:34 ο δε ιησους ελεγεν πατερ αφες αυτοις ου γαρ οιδασιν τι ποιουσιν διαμεριζομενοι δε τα ιματια αυτου εβαλον κληρον
Luke 23:34 Then said Jesus, Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do. And they parted his raiment, and cast lots.
Luke 23:35 και ειστηκει ο λαος θεωρων εξεμυκτηριζον δε και οι αρχοντες συν αυτοις λεγοντες αλλους εσωσεν σωσατω εαυτον ει ουτος εστιν ο χριστος ο του θεου εκλεκτος
Luke 23:35 And the people stood beholding. And the rulers also with them derided him, saying, He saved others; let him save himself, if he be Christ, the chosen of God.
Luke 23:36 ενεπαιζον δε αυτω και οι στρατιωται προσερχομενοι και οξος προσφεροντες αυτω
Luke 23:36 And the soldiers also mocked him, coming to him, and offering him vinegar,
Luke 23:37 και λεγοντες ει συ ει ο βασιλευς των ιουδαιων σωσον σεαυτον
Luke 23:37 And saying, If thou be the king of the Jews, save thyself.
Luke 23:38 ην δε και επιγραφη γεγραμμενη επ αυτω γραμμασιν ελληνικοις και ρωμαικοις και εβραικοις ουτος εστιν ο βασιλευς των ιουδαιων
Luke 23:38 And a superscription also was written over him in letters of Greek, and Latin, and Hebrew, THIS IS THE KING OF THE JEWS.
Luke 23:39 εις δε των κρεμασθεντων κακουργων εβλασφημει αυτον λεγων ει συ ει ο χριστος σωσον σεαυτον και ημας
Luke 23:39 And one of the malefactors which were hanged railed on him, saying, If thou be Christ, save thyself and us.
Luke 23:40 αποκριθεις δε ο ετερος επετιμα αυτω λεγων ουδε φοβη συ τον θεον οτι εν τω αυτω κριματι ει
Luke 23:40 But the other answering rebuked him, saying, Dost not thou fear God, seeing thou art in the same condemnation?
Luke 23:41 και ημεις μεν δικαιως αξια γαρ ων επραξαμεν απολαμβανομεν ουτος δε ουδεν ατοπον επραξεν
Luke 23:41 And we indeed justly; for we receive the due reward of our deeds: but this man hath done nothing amiss.
Luke 23:42 και ελεγεν τω ιησου μνησθητι μου κυριε οταν ελθης εν τη βασιλεια σου
Luke 23:42 And he said unto Jesus, Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom.
Luke 23:43 και ειπεν αυτω ο ιησους αμην λεγω σοι σημερον μετ εμου εση εν τω παραδεισω
Luke 23:43 And Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, To day shalt thou be with me in paradise.
Luke 23:44 ην δε ωσει ωρα εκτη και σκοτος εγενετο εφ ολην την γην εως ωρας εννατης
Luke 23:44 And it was about the sixth hour, and there was a darkness over all the earth until the ninth hour.
Luke 23:45 και εσκοτισθη ο ηλιος και εσχισθη το καταπετασμα του ναου μεσον
Luke 23:45 And the sun was darkened, and the veil of the temple was rent in the midst.
Luke 23:46 και φωνησας φωνη μεγαλη ο ιησους ειπεν πατερ εις χειρας σου παραθησομαι το πνευμα μου και ταυτα ειπων εξεπνευσεν
Luke 23:46 And when Jesus had cried with a loud voice, he said, Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit: and having said thus, he gave up the ghost.
Luke 23:47 ιδων δε ο εκατονταρχος το γενομενον εδοξασεν τον θεον λεγων οντως ο ανθρωπος ουτος δικαιος ην
Luke 23:47 Now when the centurion saw what was done, he glorified God, saying, Certainly this was a righteous man.
Luke 23:48 και παντες οι συμπαραγενομενοι οχλοι επι την θεωριαν ταυτην θεωρουντες τα γενομενα τυπτοντες εαυτων τα στηθη υπεστρεφον
Luke 23:48 And all the people that came together to that sight, beholding the things which were done, smote their breasts, and returned.
Luke 23:49 ειστηκεισαν δε παντες οι γνωστοι αυτου μακροθεν και γυναικες αι συνακολουθησασαι αυτω απο της γαλιλαιας ορωσαι ταυτα
Luke 23:49 And all his acquaintance, and the women that followed him from Galilee, stood afar off, beholding these things.
Luke 23:50 και ιδου ανηρ ονοματι ιωσηφ βουλευτης υπαρχων ανηρ αγαθος και δικαιος
Luke 23:50 And, behold, there was a man named Joseph, a counsellor; and he was a good man, and a just:
Luke 23:51 ουτος ουκ ην συγκατατεθειμενος τη βουλη και τη πραξει αυτων απο αριμαθαιας πολεως των ιουδαιων ος και προσεδεχετο και αυτος την βασιλειαν του θεου
Luke 23:51 (The same had not consented to the counsel and deed of them;) he was of Arimathaea, a city of the Jews: who also himself waited for the kingdom of God.
Luke 23:52 ουτος προσελθων τω πιλατω ητησατο το σωμα του ιησου
Luke 23:52 This man went unto Pilate, and begged the body of Jesus.
Luke 23:53 και καθελων αυτο ενετυλιξεν αυτο σινδονι και εθηκεν αυτο εν μνηματι λαξευτω ου ουκ ην ουδεπω ουδεις κειμενος
Luke 23:53 And he took it down, and wrapped it in linen, and laid it in a sepulchre that was hewn in stone, wherein never man before was laid.
Luke 23:54 και ημερα ην παρασκευη και σαββατον επεφωσκεν
Luke 23:54 And that day was the preparation, and the sabbath drew on.
Luke 23:55 κατακολουθησασαι δε και γυναικες αιτινες ησαν συνεληλυθυιαι αυτω εκ της γαλιλαιας εθεασαντο το μνημειον και ως ετεθη το σωμα αυτου
Luke 23:55 And the women also, which came with him from Galilee, followed after, and beheld the sepulchre, and how his body was laid.
Luke 23:56 υποστρεψασαι δε ητοιμασαν αρωματα και μυρα και το μεν σαββατον ησυχασαν κατα την εντολην
Luke 23:56 And they returned, and prepared spices and ointments; and rested the sabbath day according to the commandment.
Luke 24:1 τη δε μια των σαββατων ορθρου βαθεος ηλθον επι το μνημα φερουσαι α ητοιμασαν αρωματα και τινες συν αυταις
Luke 24:1 Now upon the first day of the week, very early in the morning, they came unto the sepulchre, bringing the spices which they had prepared, and certain others with them.
Luke 24:2 ευρον δε τον λιθον αποκεκυλισμενον απο του μνημειου
Luke 24:2 And they found the stone rolled away from the sepulchre.
Luke 24:3 και εισελθουσαι ουχ ευρον το σωμα του κυριου ιησου
Luke 24:3 And they entered in, and found not the body of the Lord Jesus.
Luke 24:4 και εγενετο εν τω διαπορεισθαι αυτας περι τουτου και ιδου δυο ανδρες επεστησαν αυταις εν εσθησεσιν αστραπτουσαις
Luke 24:4 And it came to pass, as they were much perplexed thereabout, behold, two men stood by them in shining garments:
Luke 24:5 εμφοβων δε γενομενων αυτων και κλινουσων το προσωπον εις την γην ειπον προς αυτας τι ζητειτε τον ζωντα μετα των νεκρων
Luke 24:5 And as they were afraid, and bowed down their faces to the earth, they said unto them, Why seek ye the living among the dead?
Luke 24:6 ουκ εστιν ωδε αλλ ηγερθη μνησθητε ως ελαλησεν υμιν ετι ων εν τη γαλιλαια
Luke 24:6 He is not here, but is risen: remember how he spake unto you when he was yet in Galilee,
Luke 24:7 λεγων οτι δει τον υιον του ανθρωπου παραδοθηναι εις χειρας ανθρωπων αμαρτωλων και σταυρωθηναι και τη τριτη ημερα αναστηναι
Luke 24:7 Saying, The Son of man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and the third day rise again.
Luke 24:8 και εμνησθησαν των ρηματων αυτου
Luke 24:8 And they remembered his words,
Luke 24:9 και υποστρεψασαι απο του μνημειου απηγγειλαν ταυτα παντα τοις ενδεκα και πασιν τοις λοιποις
Luke 24:9 And returned from the sepulchre, and told all these things unto the eleven, and to all the rest.
Luke 24:10 ησαν δε η μαγδαληνη μαρια και ιωαννα και μαρια ιακωβου και αι λοιπαι συν αυταις αι ελεγον προς τους αποστολους ταυτα
Luke 24:10 It was Mary Magdalene and Joanna, and Mary the mother of James, and other women that were with them, which told these things unto the apostles.
Luke 24:11 και εφανησαν ενωπιον αυτων ωσει ληρος τα ρηματα αυτων και ηπιστουν αυταις
Luke 24:11 And their words seemed to them as idle tales, and they believed them not.
Luke 24:12 ο δε πετρος αναστας εδραμεν επι το μνημειον και παρακυψας βλεπει τα οθονια κειμενα μονα και απηλθεν προς εαυτον θαυμαζων το γεγονος
Luke 24:12 Then arose Peter, and ran unto the sepulchre; and stooping down, he beheld the linen clothes laid by themselves, and departed, wondering in himself at that which was come to pass.
Luke 24:13 και ιδου δυο εξ αυτων ησαν πορευομενοι εν αυτη τη ημερα εις κωμην απεχουσαν σταδιους εξηκοντα απο ιερουσαλημ η ονομα εμμαους
Luke 24:13 And, behold, two of them went that same day to a village called Emmaus, which was from Jerusalem about threescore furlongs.
Luke 24:14 και αυτοι ωμιλουν προς αλληλους περι παντων των συμβεβηκοτων τουτων
Luke 24:14 And they talked together of all these things which had happened.
Luke 24:15 και εγενετο εν τω ομιλειν αυτους και συζητειν και αυτος ο ιησους εγγισας συνεπορευετο αυτοις
Luke 24:15 And it came to pass, that, while they communed together and reasoned, Jesus himself drew near, and went with them.
Luke 24:16 οι δε οφθαλμοι αυτων εκρατουντο του μη επιγνωναι αυτον
Luke 24:16 But their eyes were holden that they should not know him.
Luke 24:17 ειπεν δε προς αυτους τινες οι λογοι ουτοι ους αντιβαλλετε προς αλληλους περιπατουντες και εστε σκυθρωποι
Luke 24:17 And he said unto them, What manner of communications are these that ye have one to another, as ye walk, and are sad?
Luke 24:18 αποκριθεις δε ο εις ω ονομα κλεοπας ειπεν προς αυτον συ μονος παροικεις εν ιερουσαλημ και ουκ εγνως τα γενομενα εν αυτη εν ταις ημεραις ταυταις
Luke 24:18 And the one of them, whose name was Cleopas, answering said unto him, Art thou only a stranger in Jerusalem, and hast not known the things which are come to pass there in these days?
Luke 24:19 και ειπεν αυτοις ποια οι δε ειπον αυτω τα περι ιησου του ναζωραιου ος εγενετο ανηρ προφητης δυνατος εν εργω και λογω εναντιον του θεου και παντος του λαου
Luke 24:19 And he said unto them, What things? And they said unto him, Concerning Jesus of Nazareth, which was a prophet mighty in deed and word before God and all the people:
Luke 24:20 οπως τε παρεδωκαν αυτον οι αρχιερεις και οι αρχοντες ημων εις κριμα θανατου και εσταυρωσαν αυτον
Luke 24:20 And how the chief priests and our rulers delivered him to be condemned to death, and have crucified him.
Luke 24:21 ημεις δε ηλπιζομεν οτι αυτος εστιν ο μελλων λυτρουσθαι τον ισραηλ αλλα γε συν πασιν τουτοις τριτην ταυτην ημεραν αγει σημερον αφ ου ταυτα εγενετο
Luke 24:21 But we trusted that it had been he which should have redeemed Israel: and beside all this, to day is the third day since these things were done.
Luke 24:22 αλλα και γυναικες τινες εξ ημων εξεστησαν ημας γενομεναι ορθριαι επι το μνημειον
Luke 24:22 Yea, and certain women also of our company made us astonished, which were early at the sepulchre;
Luke 24:23 και μη ευρουσαι το σωμα αυτου ηλθον λεγουσαι και οπτασιαν αγγελων εωρακεναι οι λεγουσιν αυτον ζην
Luke 24:23 And when they found not his body, they came, saying, that they had also seen a vision of angels, which said that he was alive.
Luke 24:24 και απηλθον τινες των συν ημιν επι το μνημειον και ευρον ουτως καθως και αι γυναικες ειπον αυτον δε ουκ ειδον
Luke 24:24 And certain of them which were with us went to the sepulchre, and found it even so as the women had said: but him they saw not.
Luke 24:25 και αυτος ειπεν προς αυτους ω ανοητοι και βραδεις τη καρδια του πιστευειν επι πασιν οις ελαλησαν οι προφηται
Luke 24:25 Then he said unto them, O fools, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken:
Luke 24:26 ουχι ταυτα εδει παθειν τον χριστον και εισελθειν εις την δοξαν αυτου
Luke 24:26 Ought not Christ to have suffered these things, and to enter into his glory?
Luke 24:27 και αρξαμενος απο μωσεως και απο παντων των προφητων διηρμηνευεν αυτοις εν πασαις ταις γραφαις τα περι εαυτου
Luke 24:27 And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself.
Luke 24:28 και ηγγισαν εις την κωμην ου επορευοντο και αυτος προσεποιειτο πορρωτερω πορευεσθαι
Luke 24:28 And they drew nigh unto the village, whither they went: and he made as though he would have gone further.
Luke 24:29 και παρεβιασαντο αυτον λεγοντες μεινον μεθ ημων οτι προς εσπεραν εστιν και κεκλικεν η ημερα και εισηλθεν του μειναι συν αυτοις
Luke 24:29 But they constrained him, saying, Abide with us: for it is toward evening, and the day is far spent. And he went in to tarry with them.
Luke 24:30 και εγενετο εν τω κατακλιθηναι αυτον μετ αυτων λαβων τον αρτον ευλογησεν και κλασας επεδιδου αυτοις
Luke 24:30 And it came to pass, as he sat at meat with them, he took bread, and blessed it, and brake, and gave to them.
Luke 24:31 αυτων δε διηνοιχθησαν οι οφθαλμοι και επεγνωσαν αυτον και αυτος αφαντος εγενετο απ αυτων
Luke 24:31 And their eyes were opened, and they knew him; and he vanished out of their sight.
Luke 24:32 και ειπον προς αλληλους ουχι η καρδια ημων καιομενη ην εν ημιν ως ελαλει ημιν εν τη οδω και ως διηνοιγεν ημιν τας γραφας
Luke 24:32 And they said one to another, Did not our heart burn within us, while he talked with us by the way, and while he opened to us the scriptures?
Luke 24:33 και ανασταντες αυτη τη ωρα υπεστρεψαν εις ιερουσαλημ και ευρον συνηθροισμενους τους ενδεκα και τους συν αυτοις
Luke 24:33 And they rose up the same hour, and returned to Jerusalem, and found the eleven gathered together, and them that were with them,
Luke 24:34 λεγοντας οτι ηγερθη ο κυριος οντως και ωφθη σιμωνι
Luke 24:34 Saying, The Lord is risen indeed, and hath appeared to Simon.
Luke 24:35 και αυτοι εξηγουντο τα εν τη οδω και ως εγνωσθη αυτοις εν τη κλασει του αρτου
Luke 24:35 And they told what things were done in the way, and how he was known of them in breaking of bread.
Luke 24:36 ταυτα δε αυτων λαλουντων αυτος ο ιησους εστη εν μεσω αυτων και λεγει αυτοις ειρηνη υμιν
Luke 24:36 And as they thus spake, Jesus himself stood in the midst of them, and saith unto them, Peace be unto you.
Luke 24:37 πτοηθεντες δε και εμφοβοι γενομενοι εδοκουν πνευμα θεωρειν
Luke 24:37 But they were terrified and affrighted, and supposed that they had seen a spirit.
Luke 24:38 και ειπεν αυτοις τι τεταραγμενοι εστε και διατι διαλογισμοι αναβαινουσιν εν ταις καρδιαις υμων
Luke 24:38 And he said unto them, Why are ye troubled? and why do thoughts arise in your hearts?
Luke 24:39 ιδετε τας χειρας μου και τους ποδας μου οτι αυτος εγω ειμι ψηλαφησατε με και ιδετε οτι πνευμα σαρκα και οστεα ουκ εχει καθως εμε θεωρειτε εχοντα
Luke 24:39 Behold my hands and my feet, that it is I myself: handle me, and see; for a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye see me have.
Luke 24:40 και τουτο ειπων επεδειξεν αυτοις τας χειρας και τους ποδας
Luke 24:40 And when he had thus spoken, he shewed them his hands and his feet.
Luke 24:41 ετι δε απιστουντων αυτων απο της χαρας και θαυμαζοντων ειπεν αυτοις εχετε τι βρωσιμον ενθαδε
Luke 24:41 And while they yet believed not for joy, and wondered, he said unto them, Have ye here any meat?
Luke 24:42 οι δε επεδωκαν αυτω ιχθυος οπτου μερος και απο μελισσιου κηριου
Luke 24:42 And they gave him a piece of a broiled fish, and of an honeycomb.
Luke 24:43 και λαβων ενωπιον αυτων εφαγεν
Luke 24:43 And he took it, and did eat before them.
Luke 24:44 ειπεν δε αυτοις ουτοι οι λογοι ους ελαλησα προς υμας ετι ων συν υμιν οτι δει πληρωθηναι παντα τα γεγραμμενα εν τω νομω μωσεως και προφηταις και ψαλμοις περι εμου
Luke 24:44 And he said unto them, These are the words which I spake unto you, while I was yet with you, that all things must be fulfilled, which were written in the law of Moses, and in the prophets, and in the psalms, concerning me.
Luke 24:45 τοτε διηνοιξεν αυτων τον νουν του συνιεναι τας γραφας
Luke 24:45 Then opened he their understanding, that they might understand the scriptures,
Luke 24:46 και ειπεν αυτοις οτι ουτως γεγραπται και ουτως εδει παθειν τον χριστον και αναστηναι εκ νεκρων τη τριτη ημερα
Luke 24:46 And said unto them, Thus it is written, and thus it behoved Christ to suffer, and to rise from the dead the third day:
Luke 24:47 και κηρυχθηναι επι τω ονοματι αυτου μετανοιαν και αφεσιν αμαρτιων εις παντα τα εθνη αρξαμενον απο ιερουσαλημ
Luke 24:47 And that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem.
Luke 24:48 υμεις δε εστε μαρτυρες τουτων
Luke 24:48 And ye are witnesses of these things.
Luke 24:49 και ιδου εγω αποστελλω την επαγγελιαν του πατρος μου εφ υμας υμεις δε καθισατε εν τη πολει ιερουσαλημ εως ου ενδυσησθε δυναμιν εξ υψους
Luke 24:49 And, behold, I send the promise of my Father upon you: but tarry ye in the city of Jerusalem, until ye be endued with power from on high.
Luke 24:50 εξηγαγεν δε αυτους εξω εως εις βηθανιαν και επαρας τας χειρας αυτου ευλογησεν αυτους
Luke 24:50 And he led them out as far as to Bethany, and he lifted up his hands, and blessed them.
Luke 24:51 και εγενετο εν τω ευλογειν αυτον αυτους διεστη απ αυτων και ανεφερετο εις τον ουρανον
Luke 24:51 And it came to pass, while he blessed them, he was parted from them, and carried up into heaven.
Luke 24:52 και αυτοι προσκυνησαντες αυτον υπεστρεψαν εις ιερουσαλημ μετα χαρας μεγαλης
Luke 24:52 And they worshipped him, and returned to Jerusalem with great joy:
Luke 24:53 και ησαν διαπαντος εν τω ιερω αινουντες και ευλογουντες τον θεον αμην
Luke 24:53 And were continually in the temple, praising and blessing God.  Amen.
John 1:1 εν αρχη ην ο λογος και ο λογος ην προς τον θεον και θεος ην ο λογος
John 1:1 In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.
John 1:2 ουτος ην εν αρχη προς τον θεον
John 1:2 The same was in the beginning with God.
John 1:3 παντα δι αυτου εγενετο και χωρις αυτου εγενετο ουδε εν ο γεγονεν
John 1:3 All things were made by him; and without him was not any thing made that was made.
John 1:4 εν αυτω ζωη ην και η ζωη ην το φως των ανθρωπων
John 1:4 In him was life; and the life was the light of men.
John 1:5 και το φως εν τη σκοτια φαινει και η σκοτια αυτο ου κατελαβεν
John 1:5 And the light shineth in darkness; and the darkness comprehended it not.
John 1:6 εγενετο ανθρωπος απεσταλμενος παρα θεου ονομα αυτω ιωαννης
John 1:6 There was a man sent from God, whose name was John.
John 1:7 ουτος ηλθεν εις μαρτυριαν ινα μαρτυρηση περι του φωτος ινα παντες πιστευσωσιν δι αυτου
John 1:7 The same came for a witness, to bear witness of the Light, that all men through him might believe.
John 1:8 ουκ ην εκεινος το φως αλλ ινα μαρτυρηση περι του φωτος
John 1:8 He was not that Light, but was sent to bear witness of that Light.
John 1:9 ην το φως το αληθινον ο φωτιζει παντα ανθρωπον ερχομενον εις τον κοσμον
John 1:9 That was the true Light, which lighteth every man that cometh into the world.
John 1:10 εν τω κοσμω ην και ο κοσμος δι αυτου εγενετο και ο κοσμος αυτον ουκ εγνω
John 1:10 He was in the world, and the world was made by him, and the world knew him not.
John 1:11 εις τα ιδια ηλθεν και οι ιδιοι αυτον ου παρελαβον
John 1:11 He came unto his own, and his own received him not.
John 1:12 οσοι δε ελαβον αυτον εδωκεν αυτοις εξουσιαν τεκνα θεου γενεσθαι τοις πιστευουσιν εις το ονομα αυτου
John 1:12 But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name:
John 1:13 οι ουκ εξ αιματων ουδε εκ θεληματος σαρκος ουδε εκ θεληματος ανδρος αλλ εκ θεου εγεννηθησαν
John 1:13 Which were born, not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God.
John 1:14 και ο λογος σαρξ εγενετο και εσκηνωσεν εν ημιν και εθεασαμεθα την δοξαν αυτου δοξαν ως μονογενους παρα πατρος πληρης χαριτος και αληθειας
John 1:14 And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, (and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father,) full of grace and truth.
John 1:15 ιωαννης μαρτυρει περι αυτου και κεκραγεν λεγων ουτος ην ον ειπον ο οπισω μου ερχομενος εμπροσθεν μου γεγονεν οτι πρωτος μου ην
John 1:15 John bare witness of him, and cried, saying, This was he of whom I spake, He that cometh after me is preferred before me: for he was before me.
John 1:16 και εκ του πληρωματος αυτου ημεις παντες ελαβομεν και χαριν αντι χαριτος
John 1:16 And of his fulness have all we received, and grace for grace.
John 1:17 οτι ο νομος δια μωσεως εδοθη η χαρις και η αληθεια δια ιησου χριστου εγενετο
John 1:17 For the law was given by Moses, but grace and truth came by Jesus Christ.
John 1:18 θεον ουδεις εωρακεν πωποτε ο μονογενης υιος ο ων εις τον κολπον του πατρος εκεινος εξηγησατο
John 1:18 No man hath seen God at any time, the only begotten Son, which is in the bosom of the Father, he hath declared him.
John 1:19 και αυτη εστιν η μαρτυρια του ιωαννου οτε απεστειλαν οι ιουδαιοι εξ ιεροσολυμων ιερεις και λευιτας ινα ερωτησωσιν αυτον συ τις ει
John 1:19 And this is the record of John, when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, Who art thou?
John 1:20 και ωμολογησεν και ουκ ηρνησατο και ωμολογησεν οτι ουκ ειμι εγω ο χριστος
John 1:20 And he confessed, and denied not; but confessed, I am not the Christ.
John 1:21 και ηρωτησαν αυτον τι ουν ηλιας ει συ και λεγει ουκ ειμι ο προφητης ει συ και απεκριθη ου
John 1:21 And they asked him, What then? Art thou Elias? And he saith, I am not. Art thou that prophet? And he answered, No.
John 1:22 ειπον ουν αυτω τις ει ινα αποκρισιν δωμεν τοις πεμψασιν ημας τι λεγεις περι σεαυτου
John 1:22 Then said they unto him, Who art thou? that we may give an answer to them that sent us. What sayest thou of thyself?
John 1:23 εφη εγω φωνη βοωντος εν τη ερημω ευθυνατε την οδον κυριου καθως ειπεν ησαιας ο προφητης
John 1:23 He said, I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness, Make straight the way of the Lord, as said the prophet Esaias.
John 1:24 και οι απεσταλμενοι ησαν εκ των φαρισαιων
John 1:24 And they which were sent were of the Pharisees.
John 1:25 και ηρωτησαν αυτον και ειπον αυτω τι ουν βαπτιζεις ει συ ουκ ει ο χριστος ουτε ηλιας ουτε ο προφητης
John 1:25 And they asked him, and said unto him, Why baptizest thou then, if thou be not that Christ, nor Elias, neither that prophet?
John 1:26 απεκριθη αυτοις ο ιωαννης λεγων εγω βαπτιζω εν υδατι μεσος δε υμων εστηκεν ον υμεις ουκ οιδατε
John 1:26 John answered them, saying, I baptize with water: but there standeth one among you, whom ye know not;
John 1:27 αυτος εστιν ο οπισω μου ερχομενος ος εμπροσθεν μου γεγονεν ου εγω ουκ ειμι αξιος ινα λυσω αυτου τον ιμαντα του υποδηματος
John 1:27 He it is, who coming after me is preferred before me, whose shoe's latchet I am not worthy to unloose.
John 1:28 ταυτα εν βηθαβαρα εγενετο περαν του ιορδανου οπου ην ιωαννης βαπτιζων
John 1:28 These things were done in Bethabara beyond Jordan, where John was baptizing.
John 1:29 τη επαυριον βλεπει ο ιωαννης τον ιησουν ερχομενον προς αυτον και λεγει ιδε ο αμνος του θεου ο αιρων την αμαρτιαν του κοσμου
John 1:29 The next day John seeth Jesus coming unto him, and saith, Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world.
John 1:30 ουτος εστιν περι ου εγω ειπον οπισω μου ερχεται ανηρ ος εμπροσθεν μου γεγονεν οτι πρωτος μου ην
John 1:30 This is he of whom I said, After me cometh a man which is preferred before me: for he was before me.
John 1:31 καγω ουκ ηδειν αυτον αλλ ινα φανερωθη τω ισραηλ δια τουτο ηλθον εγω εν τω υδατι βαπτιζων
John 1:31 And I knew him not: but that he should be made manifest to Israel, therefore am I come baptizing with water.
John 1:32 και εμαρτυρησεν ιωαννης λεγων οτι τεθεαμαι το πνευμα καταβαινον ωσει περιστεραν εξ ουρανου και εμεινεν επ αυτον
John 1:32 And John bare record, saying, I saw the Spirit descending from heaven like a dove, and it abode upon him.
John 1:33 καγω ουκ ηδειν αυτον αλλ ο πεμψας με βαπτιζειν εν υδατι εκεινος μοι ειπεν εφ ον αν ιδης το πνευμα καταβαινον και μενον επ αυτον ουτος εστιν ο βαπτιζων εν πνευματι αγιω
John 1:33 And I knew him not: but he that sent me to baptize with water, the same said unto me, Upon whom thou shalt see the Spirit descending, and remaining on him, the same is he which baptizeth with the Holy Ghost.
John 1:34 καγω εωρακα και μεμαρτυρηκα οτι ουτος εστιν ο υιος του θεου
John 1:34 And I saw, and bare record that this is the Son of God.
John 1:35 τη επαυριον παλιν ειστηκει ο ιωαννης και εκ των μαθητων αυτου δυο
John 1:35 Again the next day after John stood, and two of his disciples;
John 1:36 και εμβλεψας τω ιησου περιπατουντι λεγει ιδε ο αμνος του θεου
John 1:36 And looking upon Jesus as he walked, he saith, Behold the Lamb of God!
John 1:37 και ηκουσαν αυτου οι δυο μαθηται λαλουντος και ηκολουθησαν τω ιησου
John 1:37 And the two disciples heard him speak, and they followed Jesus.
John 1:38 στραφεις δε ο ιησους και θεασαμενος αυτους ακολουθουντας λεγει αυτοις τι ζητειτε οι δε ειπον αυτω ραββι ο λεγεται ερμηνευομενον διδασκαλε που μενεις
John 1:38 Then Jesus turned, and saw them following, and saith unto them, What seek ye? They said unto him, Rabbi, (which is to say, being interpreted, Master,) where dwellest thou?
John 1:39 λεγει αυτοις ερχεσθε και ιδετε ηλθον και ειδον που μενει και παρ αυτω εμειναν την ημεραν εκεινην ωρα δε ην ως δεκατη
John 1:39 He saith unto them, Come and see. They came and saw where he dwelt, and abode with him that day: for it was about the tenth hour.
John 1:40 ην ανδρεας ο αδελφος σιμωνος πετρου εις εκ των δυο των ακουσαντων παρα ιωαννου και ακολουθησαντων αυτω
John 1:40 One of the two which heard John speak, and followed him, was Andrew, Simon Peter's brother.
John 1:41 ευρισκει ουτος πρωτος τον αδελφον τον ιδιον σιμωνα και λεγει αυτω ευρηκαμεν τον μεσσιαν ο εστιν μεθερμηνευομενον ο χριστος
John 1:41 He first findeth his own brother Simon, and saith unto him, We have found the Messias, which is, being interpreted, the Christ.
John 1:42 και ηγαγεν αυτον προς τον ιησουν εμβλεψας δε αυτω ο ιησους ειπεν συ ει σιμων ο υιος ιωνα συ κληθηση κηφας ο ερμηνευεται πετρος
John 1:42 And he brought him to Jesus. And when Jesus beheld him, he said, Thou art Simon the son of Jona: thou shalt be called Cephas, which is by interpretation, A stone.
John 1:43 τη επαυριον ηθελησεν ο ιησους εξελθειν εις την γαλιλαιαν και ευρισκει φιλιππον και λεγει αυτω ακολουθει μοι
John 1:43 The day following Jesus would go forth into Galilee, and findeth Philip, and saith unto him, Follow me.
John 1:44 ην δε ο φιλιππος απο βηθσαιδα εκ της πολεως ανδρεου και πετρου
John 1:44 Now Philip was of Bethsaida, the city of Andrew and Peter.
John 1:45 ευρισκει φιλιππος τον ναθαναηλ και λεγει αυτω ον εγραψεν μωσης εν τω νομω και οι προφηται ευρηκαμεν ιησουν τον υιον του ιωσηφ τον απο ναζαρετ
John 1:45 Philip findeth Nathanael, and saith unto him, We have found him, of whom Moses in the law, and the prophets, did write, Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph.
John 1:46 και ειπεν αυτω ναθαναηλ εκ ναζαρετ δυναται τι αγαθον ειναι λεγει αυτω φιλιππος ερχου και ιδε
John 1:46 And Nathanael said unto him, Can there any good thing come out of Nazareth? Philip saith unto him, Come and see.
John 1:47 ειδεν ο ιησους τον ναθαναηλ ερχομενον προς αυτον και λεγει περι αυτου ιδε αληθως ισραηλιτης εν ω δολος ουκ εστιν
John 1:47 Jesus saw Nathanael coming to him, and saith of him, Behold an Israelite indeed, in whom is no guile!
John 1:48 λεγει αυτω ναθαναηλ ποθεν με γινωσκεις απεκριθη ο ιησους και ειπεν αυτω προ του σε φιλιππον φωνησαι οντα υπο την συκην ειδον σε
John 1:48 Nathanael saith unto him, Whence knowest thou me? Jesus answered and said unto him, Before that Philip called thee, when thou wast under the fig tree, I saw thee.
John 1:49 απεκριθη ναθαναηλ και λεγει αυτω ραββι συ ει ο υιος του θεου συ ει ο βασιλευς του ισραηλ
John 1:49 Nathanael answered and saith unto him, Rabbi, thou art the Son of God; thou art the King of Israel.
John 1:50 απεκριθη ιησους και ειπεν αυτω οτι ειπον σοι ειδον σε υποκατω της συκης πιστευεις μειζω τουτων οψει
John 1:50 Jesus answered and said unto him, Because I said unto thee, I saw thee under the fig tree, believest thou? thou shalt see greater things than these.
John 1:51 και λεγει αυτω αμην αμην λεγω υμιν απ αρτι οψεσθε τον ουρανον ανεωγοτα και τους αγγελους του θεου αναβαινοντας και καταβαινοντας επι τον υιον του ανθρωπου
John 1:51 And he saith unto him, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Hereafter ye shall see heaven open, and the angels of God ascending and descending upon the Son of man.
John 2:1 και τη ημερα τη τριτη γαμος εγενετο εν κανα της γαλιλαιας και ην η μητηρ του ιησου εκει
John 2:1 And the third day there was a marriage in Cana of Galilee; and the mother of Jesus was there:
John 2:2 εκληθη δε και ο ιησους και οι μαθηται αυτου εις τον γαμον
John 2:2 And both Jesus was called, and his disciples, to the marriage.
John 2:3 και υστερησαντος οινου λεγει η μητηρ του ιησου προς αυτον οινον ουκ εχουσιν
John 2:3 And when they wanted wine, the mother of Jesus saith unto him, They have no wine.
John 2:4 λεγει αυτη ο ιησους τι εμοι και σοι γυναι ουπω ηκει η ωρα μου
John 2:4 Jesus saith unto her, Woman, what have I to do with thee? mine hour is not yet come.
John 2:5 λεγει η μητηρ αυτου τοις διακονοις ο τι αν λεγη υμιν ποιησατε
John 2:5 His mother saith unto the servants, Whatsoever he saith unto you, do it.
John 2:6 ησαν δε εκει υδριαι λιθιναι εξ κειμεναι κατα τον καθαρισμον των ιουδαιων χωρουσαι ανα μετρητας δυο η τρεις
John 2:6 And there were set there six waterpots of stone, after the manner of the purifying of the Jews, containing two or three firkins apiece.
John 2:7 λεγει αυτοις ο ιησους γεμισατε τας υδριας υδατος και εγεμισαν αυτας εως ανω
John 2:7 Jesus saith unto them, Fill the waterpots with water. And they filled them up to the brim.
John 2:8 και λεγει αυτοις αντλησατε νυν και φερετε τω αρχιτρικλινω και ηνεγκαν
John 2:8 And he saith unto them, Draw out now, and bear unto the governor of the feast. And they bare it.
John 2:9 ως δε εγευσατο ο αρχιτρικλινος το υδωρ οινον γεγενημενον και ουκ ηδει ποθεν εστιν οι δε διακονοι ηδεισαν οι ηντληκοτες το υδωρ φωνει τον νυμφιον ο αρχιτρικλινος
John 2:9 When the ruler of the feast had tasted the water that was made wine, and knew not whence it was: (but the servants which drew the water knew;) the governor of the feast called the bridegroom,
John 2:10 και λεγει αυτω πας ανθρωπος πρωτον τον καλον οινον τιθησιν και οταν μεθυσθωσιν τοτε τον ελασσω συ τετηρηκας τον καλον οινον εως αρτι
John 2:10 And saith unto him, Every man at the beginning doth set forth good wine; and when men have well drunk, then that which is worse: but thou hast kept the good wine until now.
John 2:11 ταυτην εποιησεν την αρχην των σημειων ο ιησους εν κανα της γαλιλαιας και εφανερωσεν την δοξαν αυτου και επιστευσαν εις αυτον οι μαθηται αυτου
John 2:11 This beginning of miracles did Jesus in Cana of Galilee, and manifested forth his glory; and his disciples believed on him.
John 2:12 μετα τουτο κατεβη εις καπερναουμ αυτος και η μητηρ αυτου και οι αδελφοι αυτου και οι μαθηται αυτου και εκει εμειναν ου πολλας ημερας
John 2:12 After this he went down to Capernaum, he, and his mother, and his brethren, and his disciples: and they continued there not many days.
John 2:13 και εγγυς ην το πασχα των ιουδαιων και ανεβη εις ιεροσολυμα ο ιησους
John 2:13 And the Jews' passover was at hand, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
John 2:14 και ευρεν εν τω ιερω τους πωλουντας βοας και προβατα και περιστερας και τους κερματιστας καθημενους
John 2:14 And found in the temple those that sold oxen and sheep and doves, and the changers of money sitting:
John 2:15 και ποιησας φραγελλιον εκ σχοινιων παντας εξεβαλεν εκ του ιερου τα τε προβατα και τους βοας και των κολλυβιστων εξεχεεν το κερμα και τας τραπεζας ανεστρεψεν
John 2:15 And when he had made a scourge of small cords, he drove them all out of the temple, and the sheep, and the oxen; and poured out the changers' money, and overthrew the tables;
John 2:16 και τοις τας περιστερας πωλουσιν ειπεν αρατε ταυτα εντευθεν μη ποιειτε τον οικον του πατρος μου οικον εμποριου
John 2:16 And said unto them that sold doves, Take these things hence; make not my Father's house an house of merchandise.
John 2:17 εμνησθησαν δε οι μαθηται αυτου οτι γεγραμμενον εστιν ο ζηλος του οικου σου κατεφαγεν με
John 2:17 And his disciples remembered that it was written, The zeal of thine house hath eaten me up.
John 2:18 απεκριθησαν ουν οι ιουδαιοι και ειπον αυτω τι σημειον δεικνυεις ημιν οτι ταυτα ποιεις
John 2:18 Then answered the Jews and said unto him, What sign shewest thou unto us, seeing that thou doest these things?
John 2:19 απεκριθη ο ιησους και ειπεν αυτοις λυσατε τον ναον τουτον και εν τρισιν ημεραις εγερω αυτον
John 2:19 Jesus answered and said unto them, Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up.
John 2:20 ειπον ουν οι ιουδαιοι τεσσαρακοντα και εξ ετεσιν ωκοδομηθη ο ναος ουτος και συ εν τρισιν ημεραις εγερεις αυτον
John 2:20 Then said the Jews, Forty and six years was this temple in building, and wilt thou rear it up in three days?
John 2:21 εκεινος δε ελεγεν περι του ναου του σωματος αυτου
John 2:21 But he spake of the temple of his body.
John 2:22 οτε ουν ηγερθη εκ νεκρων εμνησθησαν οι μαθηται αυτου οτι τουτο ελεγεν αυτοις και επιστευσαν τη γραφη και τω λογω ω ειπεν ο ιησους
John 2:22 When therefore he was risen from the dead, his disciples remembered that he had said this unto them; and they believed the scripture, and the word which Jesus had said.
John 2:23 ως δε ην εν ιεροσολυμοις εν τω πασχα εν τη εορτη πολλοι επιστευσαν εις το ονομα αυτου θεωρουντες αυτου τα σημεια α εποιει
John 2:23 Now when he was in Jerusalem at the passover, in the feast day, many believed in his name, when they saw the miracles which he did.
John 2:24 αυτος δε ο ιησους ουκ επιστευεν εαυτον αυτοις δια το αυτον γινωσκειν παντας
John 2:24 But Jesus did not commit himself unto them, because he knew all men,
John 2:25 και οτι ου χρειαν ειχεν ινα τις μαρτυρηση περι του ανθρωπου αυτος γαρ εγινωσκεν τι ην εν τω ανθρωπω
John 2:25 And needed not that any should testify of man: for he knew what was in man.
John 3:1 ην δε ανθρωπος εκ των φαρισαιων νικοδημος ονομα αυτω αρχων των ιουδαιων
John 3:1 There was a man of the Pharisees, named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews:
John 3:2 ουτος ηλθεν προς τον ιησουν νυκτος και ειπεν αυτω ραββι οιδαμεν οτι απο θεου εληλυθας διδασκαλος ουδεις γαρ ταυτα τα σημεια δυναται ποιειν α συ ποιεις εαν μη η ο θεος μετ αυτου
John 3:2 The same came to Jesus by night, and said unto him, Rabbi, we know that thou art a teacher come from God: for no man can do these miracles that thou doest, except God be with him.
John 3:3 απεκριθη ο ιησους και ειπεν αυτω αμην αμην λεγω σοι εαν μη τις γεννηθη ανωθεν ου δυναται ιδειν την βασιλειαν του θεου
John 3:3 Jesus answered and said unto him, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God.
John 3:4 λεγει προς αυτον ο νικοδημος πως δυναται ανθρωπος γεννηθηναι γερων ων μη δυναται εις την κοιλιαν της μητρος αυτου δευτερον εισελθειν και γεννηθηναι
John 3:4 Nicodemus saith unto him, How can a man be born when he is old? can he enter the second time into his mother's womb, and be born?
John 3:5 απεκριθη ο ιησους αμην αμην λεγω σοι εαν μη τις γεννηθη εξ υδατος και πνευματος ου δυναται εισελθειν εις την βασιλειαν του θεου
John 3:5 Jesus answered, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God.
John 3:6 το γεγεννημενον εκ της σαρκος σαρξ εστιν και το γεγεννημενον εκ του πνευματος πνευμα εστιν
John 3:6 That which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit.
John 3:7 μη θαυμασης οτι ειπον σοι δει υμας γεννηθηναι ανωθεν
John 3:7 Marvel not that I said unto thee, Ye must be born again.
John 3:8 το πνευμα οπου θελει πνει και την φωνην αυτου ακουεις αλλ ουκ οιδας ποθεν ερχεται και που υπαγει ουτως εστιν πας ο γεγεννημενος εκ του πνευματος
John 3:8 The wind bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearest the sound thereof, but canst not tell whence it cometh, and whither it goeth: so is every one that is born of the Spirit.
John 3:9 απεκριθη νικοδημος και ειπεν αυτω πως δυναται ταυτα γενεσθαι
John 3:9 Nicodemus answered and said unto him, How can these things be?
John 3:10 απεκριθη ο ιησους και ειπεν αυτω συ ει ο διδασκαλος του ισραηλ και ταυτα ου γινωσκεις
John 3:10 Jesus answered and said unto him, Art thou a master of Israel, and knowest not these things?
John 3:11 αμην αμην λεγω σοι οτι ο οιδαμεν λαλουμεν και ο εωρακαμεν μαρτυρουμεν και την μαρτυριαν ημων ου λαμβανετε
John 3:11 Verily, verily, I say unto thee, We speak that we do know, and testify that we have seen; and ye receive not our witness.
John 3:12 ει τα επιγεια ειπον υμιν και ου πιστευετε πως εαν ειπω υμιν τα επουρανια πιστευσετε
John 3:12 If I have told you earthly things, and ye believe not, how shall ye believe, if I tell you of heavenly things?
John 3:13 και ουδεις αναβεβηκεν εις τον ουρανον ει μη ο εκ του ουρανου καταβας ο υιος του ανθρωπου ο ων εν τω ουρανω
John 3:13 And no man hath ascended up to heaven, but he that came down from heaven, even the Son of man which is in heaven.
John 3:14 και καθως μωσης υψωσεν τον οφιν εν τη ερημω ουτως υψωθηναι δει τον υιον του ανθρωπου
John 3:14 And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of man be lifted up:
John 3:15 ινα πας ο πιστευων εις αυτον μη αποληται αλλ εχη ζωην αιωνιον
John 3:15 That whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have eternal life.
John 3:16 ουτως γαρ ηγαπησεν ο θεος τον κοσμον ωστε τον υιον αυτου τον μονογενη εδωκεν ινα πας ο πιστευων εις αυτον μη αποληται αλλ εχη ζωην αιωνιον
John 3:16 For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life.
John 3:17 ου γαρ απεστειλεν ο θεος τον υιον αυτου εις τον κοσμον ινα κρινη τον κοσμον αλλ ινα σωθη ο κοσμος δι αυτου
John 3:17 For God sent not his Son into the world to condemn the world; but that the world through him might be saved.
John 3:18 ο πιστευων εις αυτον ου κρινεται ο δε μη πιστευων ηδη κεκριται οτι μη πεπιστευκεν εις το ονομα του μονογενους υιου του θεου
John 3:18 He that believeth on him is not condemned: but he that believeth not is condemned already, because he hath not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God.
John 3:19 αυτη δε εστιν η κρισις οτι το φως εληλυθεν εις τον κοσμον και ηγαπησαν οι ανθρωποι μαλλον το σκοτος η το φως ην γαρ πονηρα αυτων τα εργα
John 3:19 And this is the condemnation, that light is come into the world, and men loved darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil.
John 3:20 πας γαρ ο φαυλα πρασσων μισει το φως και ουκ ερχεται προς το φως ινα μη ελεγχθη τα εργα αυτου
John 3:20 For every one that doeth evil hateth the light, neither cometh to the light, lest his deeds should be reproved.
John 3:21 ο δε ποιων την αληθειαν ερχεται προς το φως ινα φανερωθη αυτου τα εργα οτι εν θεω εστιν ειργασμενα
John 3:21 But he that doeth truth cometh to the light, that his deeds may be made manifest, that they are wrought in God.
John 3:22 μετα ταυτα ηλθεν ο ιησους και οι μαθηται αυτου εις την ιουδαιαν γην και εκει διετριβεν μετ αυτων και εβαπτιζεν
John 3:22 After these things came Jesus and his disciples into the land of Judaea; and there he tarried with them, and baptized.
John 3:23 ην δε και ιωαννης βαπτιζων εν αινων εγγυς του σαλειμ οτι υδατα πολλα ην εκει και παρεγινοντο και εβαπτιζοντο
John 3:23 And John also was baptizing in Aenon near to Salim, because there was much water there: and they came, and were baptized.
John 3:24 ουπω γαρ ην βεβλημενος εις την φυλακην ο ιωαννης
John 3:24 For John was not yet cast into prison.
John 3:25 εγενετο ουν ζητησις εκ των μαθητων ιωαννου μετα ιουδαιων περι καθαρισμου
John 3:25 Then there arose a question between some of John's disciples and the Jews about purifying.
John 3:26 και ηλθον προς τον ιωαννην και ειπον αυτω ραββι ος ην μετα σου περαν του ιορδανου ω συ μεμαρτυρηκας ιδε ουτος βαπτιζει και παντες ερχονται προς αυτον
John 3:26 And they came unto John, and said unto him, Rabbi, he that was with thee beyond Jordan, to whom thou barest witness, behold, the same baptizeth, and all men come to him.
John 3:27 απεκριθη ιωαννης και ειπεν ου δυναται ανθρωπος λαμβανειν ουδεν εαν μη η δεδομενον αυτω εκ του ουρανου
John 3:27 John answered and said, A man can receive nothing, except it be given him from heaven.
John 3:28 αυτοι υμεις μοι μαρτυρειτε οτι ειπον ουκ ειμι εγω ο χριστος αλλ οτι απεσταλμενος ειμι εμπροσθεν εκεινου
John 3:28 Ye yourselves bear me witness, that I said, I am not the Christ, but that I am sent before him.
John 3:29 ο εχων την νυμφην νυμφιος εστιν ο δε φιλος του νυμφιου ο εστηκως και ακουων αυτου χαρα χαιρει δια την φωνην του νυμφιου αυτη ουν η χαρα η εμη πεπληρωται
John 3:29 He that hath the bride is the bridegroom: but the friend of the bridegroom, which standeth and heareth him, rejoiceth greatly because of the bridegroom's voice: this my joy therefore is fulfilled.
John 3:30 εκεινον δει αυξανειν εμε δε ελαττουσθαι
John 3:30 He must increase, but I must decrease.
John 3:31 ο ανωθεν ερχομενος επανω παντων εστιν ο ων εκ της γης εκ της γης εστιν και εκ της γης λαλει ο εκ του ουρανου ερχομενος επανω παντων εστιν
John 3:31 He that cometh from above is above all: he that is of the earth is earthly, and speaketh of the earth: he that cometh from heaven is above all.
John 3:32 και ο εωρακεν και ηκουσεν τουτο μαρτυρει και την μαρτυριαν αυτου ουδεις λαμβανει
John 3:32 And what he hath seen and heard, that he testifieth; and no man receiveth his testimony.
John 3:33 ο λαβων αυτου την μαρτυριαν εσφραγισεν οτι ο θεος αληθης εστιν
John 3:33 He that hath received his testimony hath set to his seal that God is true.
John 3:34 ον γαρ απεστειλεν ο θεος τα ρηματα του θεου λαλει ου γαρ εκ μετρου διδωσιν ο θεος το πνευμα
John 3:34 For he whom God hath sent speaketh the words of God: for God giveth not the Spirit by measure unto him.
John 3:35 ο πατηρ αγαπα τον υιον και παντα δεδωκεν εν τη χειρι αυτου
John 3:35 The Father loveth the Son, and hath given all things into his hand.
John 3:36 ο πιστευων εις τον υιον εχει ζωην αιωνιον ο δε απειθων τω υιω ουκ οψεται ζωην αλλ η οργη του θεου μενει επ αυτον
John 3:36 He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life: and he that believeth not the Son shall not see life; but the wrath of God abideth on him.
John 4:1 ως ουν εγνω ο κυριος οτι ηκουσαν οι φαρισαιοι οτι ιησους πλειονας μαθητας ποιει και βαπτιζει η ιωαννης
John 4:1 When therefore the LORD knew how the Pharisees had heard that Jesus made and baptized more disciples than John,
John 4:2 καιτοιγε ιησους αυτος ουκ εβαπτιζεν αλλ οι μαθηται αυτου
John 4:2 (Though Jesus himself baptized not, but his disciples,)
John 4:3 αφηκεν την ιουδαιαν και απηλθεν παλιν εις την γαλιλαιαν
John 4:3 He left Judaea, and departed again into Galilee.
John 4:4 εδει δε αυτον διερχεσθαι δια της σαμαρειας
John 4:4 And he must needs go through Samaria.
John 4:5 ερχεται ουν εις πολιν της σαμαρειας λεγομενην συχαρ πλησιον του χωριου ο εδωκεν ιακωβ ιωσηφ τω υιω αυτου
John 4:5 Then cometh he to a city of Samaria, which is called Sychar, near to the parcel of ground that Jacob gave to his son Joseph.
John 4:6 ην δε εκει πηγη του ιακωβ ο ουν ιησους κεκοπιακως εκ της οδοιποριας εκαθεζετο ουτως επι τη πηγη ωρα ην ωσει εκτη
John 4:6 Now Jacob's well was there. Jesus therefore, being wearied with his journey, sat thus on the well: and it was about the sixth hour.
John 4:7 ερχεται γυνη εκ της σαμαρειας αντλησαι υδωρ λεγει αυτη ο ιησους δος μοι πιειν
John 4:7 There cometh a woman of Samaria to draw water: Jesus saith unto her, Give me to drink.
John 4:8 οι γαρ μαθηται αυτου απεληλυθεισαν εις την πολιν ινα τροφας αγορασωσιν
John 4:8 (For his disciples were gone away unto the city to buy meat.)
John 4:9 λεγει ουν αυτω η γυνη η σαμαρειτις πως συ ιουδαιος ων παρ εμου πιειν αιτεις ουσης γυναικος σαμαρειτιδος ου γαρ συγχρωνται ιουδαιοι σαμαρειταις
John 4:9 Then saith the woman of Samaria unto him, How is it that thou, being a Jew, askest drink of me, which am a woman of Samaria?  for the Jews have no dealings with the Samaritans.
John 4:10 απεκριθη ιησους και ειπεν αυτη ει ηδεις την δωρεαν του θεου και τις εστιν ο λεγων σοι δος μοι πιειν συ αν ητησας αυτον και εδωκεν αν σοι υδωρ ζων
John 4:10 Jesus answered and said unto her, If thou knewest the gift of God, and who it is that saith to thee, Give me to drink; thou wouldest have asked of him, and he would have given thee living water.
John 4:11 λεγει αυτω η γυνη κυριε ουτε αντλημα εχεις και το φρεαρ εστιν βαθυ ποθεν ουν εχεις το υδωρ το ζων
John 4:11 The woman saith unto him, Sir, thou hast nothing to draw with, and the well is deep: from whence then hast thou that living water?
John 4:12 μη συ μειζων ει του πατρος ημων ιακωβ ος εδωκεν ημιν το φρεαρ και αυτος εξ αυτου επιεν και οι υιοι αυτου και τα θρεμματα αυτου
John 4:12 Art thou greater than our father Jacob, which gave us the well, and drank thereof himself, and his children, and his cattle?
John 4:13 απεκριθη ο ιησους και ειπεν αυτη πας ο πινων εκ του υδατος τουτου διψησει παλιν
John 4:13 Jesus answered and said unto her, Whosoever drinketh of this water shall thirst again:
John 4:14 ος δ αν πιη εκ του υδατος ου εγω δωσω αυτω ου μη διψηση εις τον αιωνα αλλα το υδωρ ο δωσω αυτω γενησεται εν αυτω πηγη υδατος αλλομενου εις ζωην αιωνιον
John 4:14 But whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst; but the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life.
John 4:15 λεγει προς αυτον η γυνη κυριε δος μοι τουτο το υδωρ ινα μη διψω μηδε ερχωμαι ενθαδε αντλειν
John 4:15 The woman saith unto him, Sir, give me this water, that I thirst not, neither come hither to draw.
John 4:16 λεγει αυτη ο ιησους υπαγε φωνησον τον ανδρα σου και ελθε ενθαδε
John 4:16 Jesus saith unto her, Go, call thy husband, and come hither.
John 4:17 απεκριθη η γυνη και ειπεν ουκ εχω ανδρα λεγει αυτη ο ιησους καλως ειπας οτι ανδρα ουκ εχω
John 4:17 The woman answered and said, I have no husband. Jesus said unto her, Thou hast well said, I have no husband:
John 4:18 πεντε γαρ ανδρας εσχες και νυν ον εχεις ουκ εστιν σου ανηρ τουτο αληθες ειρηκας
John 4:18 For thou hast had five husbands; and he whom thou now hast is not thy husband: in that saidst thou truly.
John 4:19 λεγει αυτω η γυνη κυριε θεωρω οτι προφητης ει συ
John 4:19 The woman saith unto him, Sir, I perceive that thou art a prophet.
John 4:20 οι πατερες ημων εν τουτω τω ορει προσεκυνησαν και υμεις λεγετε οτι εν ιεροσολυμοις εστιν ο τοπος οπου δει προσκυνειν
John 4:20 Our fathers worshipped in this mountain; and ye say, that in Jerusalem is the place where men ought to worship.
John 4:21 λεγει αυτη ο ιησους γυναι πιστευσον μοι οτι ερχεται ωρα οτε ουτε εν τω ορει τουτω ουτε εν ιεροσολυμοις προσκυνησετε τω πατρι
John 4:21 Jesus saith unto her, Woman, believe me, the hour cometh, when ye shall neither in this mountain, nor yet at Jerusalem, worship the Father.
John 4:22 υμεις προσκυνειτε ο ουκ οιδατε ημεις προσκυνουμεν ο οιδαμεν οτι η σωτηρια εκ των ιουδαιων εστιν
John 4:22 Ye worship ye know not what: we know what we worship: for salvation is of the Jews.
John 4:23 αλλ ερχεται ωρα και νυν εστιν οτε οι αληθινοι προσκυνηται προσκυνησουσιν τω πατρι εν πνευματι και αληθεια και γαρ ο πατηρ τοιουτους ζητει τους προσκυνουντας αυτον
John 4:23 But the hour cometh, and now is, when the true worshippers shall worship the Father in spirit and in truth: for the Father seeketh such to worship him.
John 4:24 πνευμα ο θεος και τους προσκυνουντας αυτον εν πνευματι και αληθεια δει προσκυνειν
John 4:24 God is a Spirit: and they that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth.
John 4:25 λεγει αυτω η γυνη οιδα οτι μεσσιας ερχεται ο λεγομενος χριστος οταν ελθη εκεινος αναγγελει ημιν παντα
John 4:25 The woman saith unto him, I know that Messias cometh, which is called Christ: when he is come, he will tell us all things.
John 4:26 λεγει αυτη ο ιησους εγω ειμι ο λαλων σοι
John 4:26 Jesus saith unto her, I that speak unto thee am he.
John 4:27 και επι τουτω ηλθον οι μαθηται αυτου και εθαυμασαν οτι μετα γυναικος ελαλει ουδεις μεντοι ειπεν τι ζητεις η τι λαλεις μετ αυτης
John 4:27 And upon this came his disciples, and marvelled that he talked with the woman: yet no man said, What seekest thou? or, Why talkest thou with her?
John 4:28 αφηκεν ουν την υδριαν αυτης η γυνη και απηλθεν εις την πολιν και λεγει τοις ανθρωποις
John 4:28 The woman then left her waterpot, and went her way into the city, and saith to the men,
John 4:29 δευτε ιδετε ανθρωπον ος ειπεν μοι παντα οσα εποιησα μητι ουτος εστιν ο χριστος
John 4:29 Come, see a man, which told me all things that ever I did: is not this the Christ?
John 4:30 εξηλθον ουν εκ της πολεως και ηρχοντο προς αυτον
John 4:30 Then they went out of the city, and came unto him.
John 4:31 εν δε τω μεταξυ ηρωτων αυτον οι μαθηται λεγοντες ραββι φαγε
John 4:31 In the mean while his disciples prayed him, saying, Master, eat.
John 4:32 ο δε ειπεν αυτοις εγω βρωσιν εχω φαγειν ην υμεις ουκ οιδατε
John 4:32 But he said unto them, I have meat to eat that ye know not of.
John 4:33 ελεγον ουν οι μαθηται προς αλληλους μη τις ηνεγκεν αυτω φαγειν
John 4:33 Therefore said the disciples one to another, Hath any man brought him ought to eat?
John 4:34 λεγει αυτοις ο ιησους εμον βρωμα εστιν ινα ποιω το θελημα του πεμψαντος με και τελειωσω αυτου το εργον
John 4:34 Jesus saith unto them, My meat is to do the will of him that sent me, and to finish his work.
John 4:35 ουχ υμεις λεγετε οτι ετι τετραμηνον εστιν και ο θερισμος ερχεται ιδου λεγω υμιν επαρατε τους οφθαλμους υμων και θεασασθε τας χωρας οτι λευκαι εισιν προς θερισμον ηδη
John 4:35 Say not ye, There are yet four months, and then cometh harvest? behold, I say unto you, Lift up your eyes, and look on the fields; for they are white already to harvest.
John 4:36 και ο θεριζων μισθον λαμβανει και συναγει καρπον εις ζωην αιωνιον ινα και ο σπειρων ομου χαιρη και ο θεριζων
John 4:36 And he that reapeth receiveth wages, and gathereth fruit unto life eternal: that both he that soweth and he that reapeth may rejoice together.
John 4:37 εν γαρ τουτω ο λογος εστιν ο αληθινος οτι αλλος εστιν ο σπειρων και αλλος ο θεριζων
John 4:37 And herein is that saying true, One soweth, and another reapeth.
John 4:38 εγω απεστειλα υμας θεριζειν ο ουχ υμεις κεκοπιακατε αλλοι κεκοπιακασιν και υμεις εις τον κοπον αυτων εισεληλυθατε
John 4:38 I sent you to reap that whereon ye bestowed no labour: other men laboured, and ye are entered into their labours.
John 4:39 εκ δε της πολεως εκεινης πολλοι επιστευσαν εις αυτον των σαμαρειτων δια τον λογον της γυναικος μαρτυρουσης οτι ειπεν μοι παντα οσα εποιησα
John 4:39 And many of the Samaritans of that city believed on him for the saying of the woman, which testified, He told me all that ever I did.
John 4:40 ως ουν ηλθον προς αυτον οι σαμαρειται ηρωτων αυτον μειναι παρ αυτοις και εμεινεν εκει δυο ημερας
John 4:40 So when the Samaritans were come unto him, they besought him that he would tarry with them: and he abode there two days.
John 4:41 και πολλω πλειους επιστευσαν δια τον λογον αυτου
John 4:41 And many more believed because of his own word;
John 4:42 τη τε γυναικι ελεγον οτι ουκετι δια την σην λαλιαν πιστευομεν αυτοι γαρ ακηκοαμεν και οιδαμεν οτι ουτος εστιν αληθως ο σωτηρ του κοσμου ο χριστος
John 4:42 And said unto the woman, Now we believe, not because of thy saying: for we have heard him ourselves, and know that this is indeed the Christ, the Saviour of the world.
John 4:43 μετα δε τας δυο ημερας εξηλθεν εκειθεν και απηλθεν εις την γαλιλαιαν
John 4:43 Now after two days he departed thence, and went into Galilee.
John 4:44 αυτος γαρ ο ιησους εμαρτυρησεν οτι προφητης εν τη ιδια πατριδι τιμην ουκ εχει
John 4:44 For Jesus himself testified, that a prophet hath no honour in his own country.
John 4:45 οτε ουν ηλθεν εις την γαλιλαιαν εδεξαντο αυτον οι γαλιλαιοι παντα εωρακοτες α εποιησεν εν ιεροσολυμοις εν τη εορτη και αυτοι γαρ ηλθον εις την εορτην
John 4:45 Then when he was come into Galilee, the Galilaeans received him, having seen all the things that he did at Jerusalem at the feast: for they also went unto the feast.
John 4:46 ηλθεν ουν ο ιησους παλιν εις την κανα της γαλιλαιας οπου εποιησεν το υδωρ οινον και ην τις βασιλικος ου ο υιος ησθενει εν καπερναουμ
John 4:46 So Jesus came again into Cana of Galilee, where he made the water wine. And there was a certain nobleman, whose son was sick at Capernaum.
John 4:47 ουτος ακουσας οτι ιησους ηκει εκ της ιουδαιας εις την γαλιλαιαν απηλθεν προς αυτον και ηρωτα αυτον ινα καταβη και ιασηται αυτου τον υιον ημελλεν γαρ αποθνησκειν
John 4:47 When he heard that Jesus was come out of Judaea into Galilee, he went unto him, and besought him that he would come down, and heal his son: for he was at the point of death.
John 4:48 ειπεν ουν ο ιησους προς αυτον εαν μη σημεια και τερατα ιδητε ου μη πιστευσητε
John 4:48 Then said Jesus unto him, Except ye see signs and wonders, ye will not believe.
John 4:49 λεγει προς αυτον ο βασιλικος κυριε καταβηθι πριν αποθανειν το παιδιον μου
John 4:49 The nobleman saith unto him, Sir, come down ere my child die.
John 4:50 λεγει αυτω ο ιησους πορευου ο υιος σου ζη και επιστευσεν ο ανθρωπος τω λογω ω ειπεν αυτω ιησους και επορευετο
John 4:50 Jesus saith unto him, Go thy way; thy son liveth. And the man believed the word that Jesus had spoken unto him, and he went his way.
John 4:51 ηδη δε αυτου καταβαινοντος οι δουλοι αυτου απηντησαν αυτω και απηγγειλαν λεγοντες οτι ο παις σου ζη
John 4:51 And as he was now going down, his servants met him, and told him, saying, Thy son liveth.
John 4:52 επυθετο ουν παρ αυτων την ωραν εν η κομψοτερον εσχεν και ειπον αυτω οτι χθες ωραν εβδομην αφηκεν αυτον ο πυρετος
John 4:52 Then enquired he of them the hour when he began to amend. And they said unto him, Yesterday at the seventh hour the fever left him.
John 4:53 εγνω ουν ο πατηρ οτι εν εκεινη τη ωρα εν η ειπεν αυτω ο ιησους οτι ο υιος σου ζη και επιστευσεν αυτος και η οικια αυτου ολη
John 4:53 So the father knew that it was at the same hour, in the which Jesus said unto him, Thy son liveth: and himself believed, and his whole house.
John 4:54 τουτο παλιν δευτερον σημειον εποιησεν ο ιησους ελθων εκ της ιουδαιας εις την γαλιλαιαν
John 4:54 This is again the second miracle that Jesus did, when he was come out of Judaea into Galilee.
John 5:1 μετα ταυτα ην εορτη των ιουδαιων και ανεβη ο ιησους εις ιεροσολυμα
John 5:1 After this there was a feast of the Jews; and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
John 5:2 εστιν δε εν τοις ιεροσολυμοις επι τη προβατικη κολυμβηθρα η επιλεγομενη εβραιστι βηθεσδα πεντε στοας εχουσα
John 5:2 Now there is at Jerusalem by the sheep market a pool, which is called in the Hebrew tongue Bethesda, having five porches.
John 5:3 εν ταυταις κατεκειτο πληθος πολυ των ασθενουντων τυφλων χωλων ξηρων εκδεχομενων την του υδατος κινησιν
John 5:3 In these lay a great multitude of impotent folk, of blind, halt, withered, waiting for the moving of the water.
John 5:4 αγγελος γαρ κατα καιρον κατεβαινεν εν τη κολυμβηθρα και εταρασσεν το υδωρ ο ουν πρωτος εμβας μετα την ταραχην του υδατος υγιης εγινετο ω δηποτε κατειχετο νοσηματι
John 5:4 For an angel went down at a certain season into the pool, and troubled the water: whosoever then first after the troubling of the water stepped in was made whole of whatsoever disease he had.
John 5:5 ην δε τις ανθρωπος εκει τριακονταοκτω ετη εχων εν τη ασθενεια
John 5:5 And a certain man was there, which had an infirmity thirty and eight years.
John 5:6 τουτον ιδων ο ιησους κατακειμενον και γνους οτι πολυν ηδη χρονον εχει λεγει αυτω θελεις υγιης γενεσθαι
John 5:6 When Jesus saw him lie, and knew that he had been now a long time in that case, he saith unto him, Wilt thou be made whole?
John 5:7 απεκριθη αυτω ο ασθενων κυριε ανθρωπον ουκ εχω ινα οταν ταραχθη το υδωρ βαλλη με εις την κολυμβηθραν εν ω δε ερχομαι εγω αλλος προ εμου καταβαινει
John 5:7 The impotent man answered him, Sir, I have no man, when the water is troubled, to put me into the pool: but while I am coming, another steppeth down before me.
John 5:8 λεγει αυτω ο ιησους εγειραι αρον τον κραββατον σου και περιπατει
John 5:8 Jesus saith unto him, Rise, take up thy bed, and walk.
John 5:9 και ευθεως εγενετο υγιης ο ανθρωπος και ηρεν τον κραββατον αυτου και περιεπατει ην δε σαββατον εν εκεινη τη ημερα
John 5:9 And immediately the man was made whole, and took up his bed, and walked: and on the same day was the sabbath.
John 5:10 ελεγον ουν οι ιουδαιοι τω τεθεραπευμενω σαββατον εστιν ουκ εξεστιν σοι αραι τον κραββατον
John 5:10 The Jews therefore said unto him that was cured, It is the sabbath day: it is not lawful for thee to carry thy bed.
John 5:11 απεκριθη αυτοις ο ποιησας με υγιη εκεινος μοι ειπεν αρον τον κραββατον σου και περιπατει
John 5:11 He answered them, He that made me whole, the same said unto me, Take up thy bed, and walk.
John 5:12 ηρωτησαν ουν αυτον τις εστιν ο ανθρωπος ο ειπων σοι αρον τον κραββατον σου και περιπατει
John 5:12 Then asked they him, What man is that which said unto thee, Take up thy bed, and walk?
John 5:13 ο δε ιαθεις ουκ ηδει τις εστιν ο γαρ ιησους εξενευσεν οχλου οντος εν τω τοπω
John 5:13 And he that was healed wist not who it was: for Jesus had conveyed himself away, a multitude being in that place.
John 5:14 μετα ταυτα ευρισκει αυτον ο ιησους εν τω ιερω και ειπεν αυτω ιδε υγιης γεγονας μηκετι αμαρτανε ινα μη χειρον τι σοι γενηται
John 5:14 Afterward Jesus findeth him in the temple, and said unto him, Behold, thou art made whole: sin no more, lest a worse thing come unto thee.
John 5:15 απηλθεν ο ανθρωπος και ανηγγειλεν τοις ιουδαιοις οτι ιησους εστιν ο ποιησας αυτον υγιη
John 5:15 The man departed, and told the Jews that it was Jesus, which had made him whole.
John 5:16 και δια τουτο εδιωκον τον ιησουν οι ιουδαιοι και εζητουν αυτον αποκτειναι οτι ταυτα εποιει εν σαββατω
John 5:16 And therefore did the Jews persecute Jesus, and sought to slay him, because he had done these things on the sabbath day.
John 5:17 ο δε ιησους απεκρινατο αυτοις ο πατηρ μου εως αρτι εργαζεται καγω εργαζομαι
John 5:17 But Jesus answered them, My Father worketh hitherto, and I work.
John 5:18 δια τουτο ουν μαλλον εζητουν αυτον οι ιουδαιοι αποκτειναι οτι ου μονον ελυεν το σαββατον αλλα και πατερα ιδιον ελεγεν τον θεον ισον εαυτον ποιων τω θεω
John 5:18 Therefore the Jews sought the more to kill him, because he not only had broken the sabbath, but said also that God was his Father, making himself equal with God.
John 5:19 απεκρινατο ουν ο ιησους και ειπεν αυτοις αμην αμην λεγω υμιν ου δυναται ο υιος ποιειν αφ εαυτου ουδεν εαν μη τι βλεπη τον πατερα ποιουντα α γαρ αν εκεινος ποιη ταυτα και ο υιος ομοιως ποιει
John 5:19 Then answered Jesus and said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, The Son can do nothing of himself, but what he seeth the Father do: for what things soever he doeth, these also doeth the Son likewise.
John 5:20 ο γαρ πατηρ φιλει τον υιον και παντα δεικνυσιν αυτω α αυτος ποιει και μειζονα τουτων δειξει αυτω εργα ινα υμεις θαυμαζητε
John 5:20 For the Father loveth the Son, and sheweth him all things that himself doeth: and he will shew him greater works than these, that ye may marvel.
John 5:21 ωσπερ γαρ ο πατηρ εγειρει τους νεκρους και ζωοποιει ουτως και ο υιος ους θελει ζωοποιει
John 5:21 For as the Father raiseth up the dead, and quickeneth them; even so the Son quickeneth whom he will.
John 5:22 ουδε γαρ ο πατηρ κρινει ουδενα αλλα την κρισιν πασαν δεδωκεν τω υιω
John 5:22 For the Father judgeth no man, but hath committed all judgment unto the Son:
John 5:23 ινα παντες τιμωσιν τον υιον καθως τιμωσιν τον πατερα ο μη τιμων τον υιον ου τιμα τον πατερα τον πεμψαντα αυτον
John 5:23 That all men should honour the Son, even as they honour the Father. He that honoureth not the Son honoureth not the Father which hath sent him.
John 5:24 αμην αμην λεγω υμιν οτι ο τον λογον μου ακουων και πιστευων τω πεμψαντι με εχει ζωην αιωνιον και εις κρισιν ουκ ερχεται αλλα μεταβεβηκεν εκ του θανατου εις την ζωην
John 5:24 Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that heareth my word, and believeth on him that sent me, hath everlasting life, and shall not come into condemnation; but is passed from death unto life.
John 5:25 αμην αμην λεγω υμιν οτι ερχεται ωρα και νυν εστιν οτε οι νεκροι ακουσονται της φωνης του υιου του θεου και οι ακουσαντες ζησονται
John 5:25 Verily, verily, I say unto you, The hour is coming, and now is, when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God: and they that hear shall live.
John 5:26 ωσπερ γαρ ο πατηρ εχει ζωην εν εαυτω ουτως εδωκεν και τω υιω ζωην εχειν εν εαυτω
John 5:26 For as the Father hath life in himself; so hath he given to the Son to have life in himself;
John 5:27 και εξουσιαν εδωκεν αυτω και κρισιν ποιειν οτι υιος ανθρωπου εστιν
John 5:27 And hath given him authority to execute judgment also, because he is the Son of man.
John 5:28 μη θαυμαζετε τουτο οτι ερχεται ωρα εν η παντες οι εν τοις μνημειοις ακουσονται της φωνης αυτου
John 5:28 Marvel not at this: for the hour is coming, in the which all that are in the graves shall hear his voice,
John 5:29 και εκπορευσονται οι τα αγαθα ποιησαντες εις αναστασιν ζωης οι δε τα φαυλα πραξαντες εις αναστασιν κρισεως
John 5:29 And shall come forth; they that have done good, unto the resurrection of life; and they that have done evil, unto the resurrection of damnation.
John 5:30 ου δυναμαι εγω ποιειν απ εμαυτου ουδεν καθως ακουω κρινω και η κρισις η εμη δικαια εστιν οτι ου ζητω το θελημα το εμον αλλα το θελημα του πεμψαντος με πατρος
John 5:30 I can of mine own self do nothing: as I hear, I judge: and my judgment is just; because I seek not mine own will, but the will of the Father which hath sent me.
John 5:31 εαν εγω μαρτυρω περι εμαυτου η μαρτυρια μου ουκ εστιν αληθης
John 5:31 If I bear witness of myself, my witness is not true.
John 5:32 αλλος εστιν ο μαρτυρων περι εμου και οιδα οτι αληθης εστιν η μαρτυρια ην μαρτυρει περι εμου
John 5:32 There is another that beareth witness of me; and I know that the witness which he witnesseth of me is true.
John 5:33 υμεις απεσταλκατε προς ιωαννην και μεμαρτυρηκεν τη αληθεια
John 5:33 Ye sent unto John, and he bare witness unto the truth.
John 5:34 εγω δε ου παρα ανθρωπου την μαρτυριαν λαμβανω αλλα ταυτα λεγω ινα υμεις σωθητε
John 5:34 But I receive not testimony from man: but these things I say, that ye might be saved.
John 5:35 εκεινος ην ο λυχνος ο καιομενος και φαινων υμεις δε ηθελησατε αγαλλιασθηναι προς ωραν εν τω φωτι αυτου
John 5:35 He was a burning and a shining light: and ye were willing for a season to rejoice in his light.
John 5:36 εγω δε εχω την μαρτυριαν μειζω του ιωαννου τα γαρ εργα α εδωκεν μοι ο πατηρ ινα τελειωσω αυτα αυτα τα εργα α εγω ποιω μαρτυρει περι εμου οτι ο πατηρ με απεσταλκεν
John 5:36 But I have greater witness than that of John: for the works which the Father hath given me to finish, the same works that I do, bear witness of me, that the Father hath sent me.
John 5:37 και ο πεμψας με πατηρ αυτος μεμαρτυρηκεν περι εμου ουτε φωνην αυτου ακηκοατε πωποτε ουτε ειδος αυτου εωρακατε
John 5:37 And the Father himself, which hath sent me, hath borne witness of me. Ye have neither heard his voice at any time, nor seen his shape.
John 5:38 και τον λογον αυτου ουκ εχετε μενοντα εν υμιν οτι ον απεστειλεν εκεινος τουτω υμεις ου πιστευετε
John 5:38 And ye have not his word abiding in you: for whom he hath sent, him ye believe not.
John 5:39 ερευνατε τας γραφας οτι υμεις δοκειτε εν αυταις ζωην αιωνιον εχειν και εκειναι εισιν αι μαρτυρουσαι περι εμου
John 5:39 Search the scriptures; for in them ye think ye have eternal life: and they are they which testify of me.
John 5:40 και ου θελετε ελθειν προς με ινα ζωην εχητε
John 5:40 And ye will not come to me, that ye might have life.
John 5:41 δοξαν παρα ανθρωπων ου λαμβανω
John 5:41 I receive not honour from men.
John 5:42 αλλ εγνωκα υμας οτι την αγαπην του θεου ουκ εχετε εν εαυτοις
John 5:42 But I know you, that ye have not the love of God in you.
John 5:43 εγω εληλυθα εν τω ονοματι του πατρος μου και ου λαμβανετε με εαν αλλος ελθη εν τω ονοματι τω ιδιω εκεινον ληψεσθε
John 5:43 I am come in my Father's name, and ye receive me not: if another shall come in his own name, him ye will receive.
John 5:44 πως δυνασθε υμεις πιστευσαι δοξαν παρα αλληλων λαμβανοντες και την δοξαν την παρα του μονου θεου ου ζητειτε
John 5:44 How can ye believe, which receive honour one of another, and seek not the honour that cometh from God only?
John 5:45 μη δοκειτε οτι εγω κατηγορησω υμων προς τον πατερα εστιν ο κατηγορων υμων μωσης εις ον υμεις ηλπικατε
John 5:45 Do not think that I will accuse you to the Father: there is one that accuseth you, even Moses, in whom ye trust.
John 5:46 ει γαρ επιστευετε μωση επιστευετε αν εμοι περι γαρ εμου εκεινος εγραψεν
John 5:46 For had ye believed Moses, ye would have believed me; for he wrote of me.
John 5:47 ει δε τοις εκεινου γραμμασιν ου πιστευετε πως τοις εμοις ρημασιν πιστευσετε
John 5:47 But if ye believe not his writings, how shall ye believe my words?
John 6:1 μετα ταυτα απηλθεν ο ιησους περαν της θαλασσης της γαλιλαιας της τιβεριαδος
John 6:1 After these things Jesus went over the sea of Galilee, which is the sea of Tiberias.
John 6:2 και ηκολουθει αυτω οχλος πολυς οτι εωρων αυτου τα σημεια α εποιει επι των ασθενουντων
John 6:2 And a great multitude followed him, because they saw his miracles which he did on them that were diseased.
John 6:3 ανηλθεν δε εις το ορος ο ιησους και εκει εκαθητο μετα των μαθητων αυτου
John 6:3 And Jesus went up into a mountain, and there he sat with his disciples.
John 6:4 ην δε εγγυς το πασχα η εορτη των ιουδαιων
John 6:4 And the passover, a feast of the Jews, was nigh.
John 6:5 επαρας ουν ο ιησους τους οφθαλμους και θεασαμενος οτι πολυς οχλος ερχεται προς αυτον λεγει προς τον φιλιππον ποθεν αγορασομεν αρτους ινα φαγωσιν ουτοι
John 6:5 When Jesus then lifted up his eyes, and saw a great company come unto him, he saith unto Philip, Whence shall we buy bread, that these may eat?
John 6:6 τουτο δε ελεγεν πειραζων αυτον αυτος γαρ ηδει τι εμελλεν ποιειν
John 6:6 And this he said to prove him: for he himself knew what he would do.
John 6:7 απεκριθη αυτω φιλιππος διακοσιων δηναριων αρτοι ουκ αρκουσιν αυτοις ινα εκαστος αυτων βραχυ τι λαβη
John 6:7 Philip answered him, Two hundred pennyworth of bread is not sufficient for them, that every one of them may take a little.
John 6:8 λεγει αυτω εις εκ των μαθητων αυτου ανδρεας ο αδελφος σιμωνος πετρου
John 6:8 One of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, saith unto him,
John 6:9 εστιν παιδαριον εν ωδε ο εχει πεντε αρτους κριθινους και δυο οψαρια αλλα ταυτα τι εστιν εις τοσουτους
John 6:9 There is a lad here, which hath five barley loaves, and two small fishes: but what are they among so many?
John 6:10 ειπεν δε ο ιησους ποιησατε τους ανθρωπους αναπεσειν ην δε χορτος πολυς εν τω τοπω ανεπεσον ουν οι ανδρες τον αριθμον ωσει πεντακισχιλιοι
John 6:10 And Jesus said, Make the men sit down. Now there was much grass in the place. So the men sat down, in number about five thousand.
John 6:11 ελαβεν δε τους αρτους ο ιησους και ευχαριστησας διεδωκεν τοις μαθηταις οι δε μαθηται τοις ανακειμενοις ομοιως και εκ των οψαριων οσον ηθελον
John 6:11 And Jesus took the loaves; and when he had given thanks, he distributed to the disciples, and the disciples to them that were set down; and likewise of the fishes as much as they would.
John 6:12 ως δε ενεπλησθησαν λεγει τοις μαθηταις αυτου συναγαγετε τα περισσευσαντα κλασματα ινα μη τι αποληται
John 6:12 When they were filled, he said unto his disciples, Gather up the fragments that remain, that nothing be lost.
John 6:13 συνηγαγον ουν και εγεμισαν δωδεκα κοφινους κλασματων εκ των πεντε αρτων των κριθινων α επερισσευσεν τοις βεβρωκοσιν
John 6:13 Therefore they gathered them together, and filled twelve baskets with the fragments of the five barley loaves, which remained over and above unto them that had eaten.
John 6:14 οι ουν ανθρωποι ιδοντες ο εποιησεν σημειον ο ιησους ελεγον οτι ουτος εστιν αληθως ο προφητης ο ερχομενος εις τον κοσμον
John 6:14 Then those men, when they had seen the miracle that Jesus did, said, This is of a truth that prophet that should come into the world.
John 6:15 ιησους ουν γνους οτι μελλουσιν ερχεσθαι και αρπαζειν αυτον ινα ποιησωσιν αυτον βασιλεα ανεχωρησεν παλιν εις το ορος αυτος μονος
John 6:15 When Jesus therefore perceived that they would come and take him by force, to make him a king, he departed again into a mountain himself alone.
John 6:16 ως δε οψια εγενετο κατεβησαν οι μαθηται αυτου επι την θαλασσαν
John 6:16 And when even was now come, his disciples went down unto the sea,
John 6:17 και εμβαντες εις το πλοιον ηρχοντο περαν της θαλασσης εις καπερναουμ και σκοτια ηδη εγεγονει και ουκ εληλυθει προς αυτους ο ιησους
John 6:17 And entered into a ship, and went over the sea toward Capernaum. And it was now dark, and Jesus was not come to them.
John 6:18 η τε θαλασσα ανεμου μεγαλου πνεοντος διηγειρετο
John 6:18 And the sea arose by reason of a great wind that blew.
John 6:19 εληλακοτες ουν ως σταδιους εικοσιπεντε η τριακοντα θεωρουσιν τον ιησουν περιπατουντα επι της θαλασσης και εγγυς του πλοιου γινομενον και εφοβηθησαν
John 6:19 So when they had rowed about five and twenty or thirty furlongs, they see Jesus walking on the sea, and drawing nigh unto the ship: and they were afraid.
John 6:20 ο δε λεγει αυτοις εγω ειμι μη φοβεισθε
John 6:20 But he saith unto them, It is I; be not afraid.
John 6:21 ηθελον ουν λαβειν αυτον εις το πλοιον και ευθεως το πλοιον εγενετο επι της γης εις ην υπηγον
John 6:21 Then they willingly received him into the ship: and immediately the ship was at the land whither they went.
John 6:22 τη επαυριον ο οχλος ο εστηκως περαν της θαλασσης ιδων οτι πλοιαριον αλλο ουκ ην εκει ει μη εν εκεινο εις ο ενεβησαν οι μαθηται αυτου και οτι ου συνεισηλθεν τοις μαθηταις αυτου ο ιησους εις το πλοιαριον αλλα μονοι οι μαθηται αυτου απηλθον
John 6:22 The day following, when the people which stood on the other side of the sea saw that there was none other boat there, save that one whereinto his disciples were entered, and that Jesus went not with his disciples into the boat, but that his disciples were gone away alone;
John 6:23 αλλα δε ηλθεν πλοιαρια εκ τιβεριαδος εγγυς του τοπου οπου εφαγον τον αρτον ευχαριστησαντος του κυριου
John 6:23 (Howbeit there came other boats from Tiberias nigh unto the place where they did eat bread, after that the Lord had given thanks:)
John 6:24 οτε ουν ειδεν ο οχλος οτι ιησους ουκ εστιν εκει ουδε οι μαθηται αυτου ενεβησαν και αυτοι εις τα πλοια και ηλθον εις καπερναουμ ζητουντες τον ιησουν
John 6:24 When the people therefore saw that Jesus was not there, neither his disciples, they also took shipping, and came to Capernaum, seeking for Jesus.
John 6:25 και ευροντες αυτον περαν της θαλασσης ειπον αυτω ραββι ποτε ωδε γεγονας
John 6:25 And when they had found him on the other side of the sea, they said unto him, Rabbi, when camest thou hither?
John 6:26 απεκριθη αυτοις ο ιησους και ειπεν αμην αμην λεγω υμιν ζητειτε με ουχ οτι ειδετε σημεια αλλ οτι εφαγετε εκ των αρτων και εχορτασθητε
John 6:26 Jesus answered them and said, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Ye seek me, not because ye saw the miracles, but because ye did eat of the loaves, and were filled.
John 6:27 εργαζεσθε μη την βρωσιν την απολλυμενην αλλα την βρωσιν την μενουσαν εις ζωην αιωνιον ην ο υιος του ανθρωπου υμιν δωσει τουτον γαρ ο πατηρ εσφραγισεν ο θεος
John 6:27 Labour not for the meat which perisheth, but for that meat which endureth unto everlasting life, which the Son of man shall give unto you: for him hath God the Father sealed.
John 6:28 ειπον ουν προς αυτον τι ποιουμεν ινα εργαζωμεθα τα εργα του θεου
John 6:28 Then said they unto him, What shall we do, that we might work the works of God?
John 6:29 απεκριθη ο ιησους και ειπεν αυτοις τουτο εστιν το εργον του θεου ινα πιστευσητε εις ον απεστειλεν εκεινος
John 6:29 Jesus answered and said unto them, This is the work of God, that ye believe on him whom he hath sent.
John 6:30 ειπον ουν αυτω τι ουν ποιεις συ σημειον ινα ιδωμεν και πιστευσωμεν σοι τι εργαζη
John 6:30 They said therefore unto him, What sign shewest thou then, that we may see, and believe thee? what dost thou work?
John 6:31 οι πατερες ημων το μαννα εφαγον εν τη ερημω καθως εστιν γεγραμμενον αρτον εκ του ουρανου εδωκεν αυτοις φαγειν
John 6:31 Our fathers did eat manna in the desert; as it is written, He gave them bread from heaven to eat.
John 6:32 ειπεν ουν αυτοις ο ιησους αμην αμην λεγω υμιν ου μωσης δεδωκεν υμιν τον αρτον εκ του ουρανου αλλ ο πατηρ μου διδωσιν υμιν τον αρτον εκ του ουρανου τον αληθινον
John 6:32 Then Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Moses gave you not that bread from heaven; but my Father giveth you the true bread from heaven.
John 6:33 ο γαρ αρτος του θεου εστιν ο καταβαινων εκ του ουρανου και ζωην διδους τω κοσμω
John 6:33 For the bread of God is he which cometh down from heaven, and giveth life unto the world.
John 6:34 ειπον ουν προς αυτον κυριε παντοτε δος ημιν τον αρτον τουτον
John 6:34 Then said they unto him, Lord, evermore give us this bread.
John 6:35 ειπεν δε αυτοις ο ιησους εγω ειμι ο αρτος της ζωης ο ερχομενος προς με ου μη πειναση και ο πιστευων εις εμε ου μη διψηση πωποτε
John 6:35 And Jesus said unto them, I am the bread of life: he that cometh to me shall never hunger; and he that believeth on me shall never thirst.
John 6:36 αλλ ειπον υμιν οτι και εωρακατε με και ου πιστευετε
John 6:36 But I said unto you, That ye also have seen me, and believe not.
John 6:37 παν ο διδωσιν μοι ο πατηρ προς εμε ηξει και τον ερχομενον προς με ου μη εκβαλω εξω
John 6:37 All that the Father giveth me shall come to me; and him that cometh to me I will in no wise cast out.
John 6:38 οτι καταβεβηκα εκ του ουρανου ουχ ινα ποιω το θελημα το εμον αλλα το θελημα του πεμψαντος με
John 6:38 For I came down from heaven, not to do mine own will, but the will of him that sent me.
John 6:39 τουτο δε εστιν το θελημα του πεμψαντος με πατρος ινα παν ο δεδωκεν μοι μη απολεσω εξ αυτου αλλα αναστησω αυτο εν τη εσχατη ημερα
John 6:39 And this is the Father's will which hath sent me, that of all which he hath given me I should lose nothing, but should raise it up again at the last day.
John 6:40 τουτο δε εστιν το θελημα του πεμψαντος με ινα πας ο θεωρων τον υιον και πιστευων εις αυτον εχη ζωην αιωνιον και αναστησω αυτον εγω τη εσχατη ημερα
John 6:40 And this is the will of him that sent me, that every one which seeth the Son, and believeth on him, may have everlasting life: and I will raise him up at the last day.
John 6:41 εγογγυζον ουν οι ιουδαιοι περι αυτου οτι ειπεν εγω ειμι ο αρτος ο καταβας εκ του ουρανου
John 6:41 The Jews then murmured at him, because he said, I am the bread which came down from heaven.
John 6:42 και ελεγον ουχ ουτος εστιν ιησους ο υιος ιωσηφ ου ημεις οιδαμεν τον πατερα και την μητερα πως ουν λεγει ουτος οτι εκ του ουρανου καταβεβηκα
John 6:42 And they said, Is not this Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? how is it then that he saith, I came down from heaven?
John 6:43 απεκριθη ουν ο ιησους και ειπεν αυτοις μη γογγυζετε μετ αλληλων
John 6:43 Jesus therefore answered and said unto them, Murmur not among yourselves.
John 6:44 ουδεις δυναται ελθειν προς με εαν μη ο πατηρ ο πεμψας με ελκυση αυτον και εγω αναστησω αυτον τη εσχατη ημερα
John 6:44 No man can come to me, except the Father which hath sent me draw him: and I will raise him up at the last day.
John 6:45 εστιν γεγραμμενον εν τοις προφηταις και εσονται παντες διδακτοι του θεου πας ουν ο ακουσας παρα του πατρος και μαθων ερχεται προς με
John 6:45 It is written in the prophets, And they shall be all taught of God. Every man therefore that hath heard, and hath learned of the Father, cometh unto me.
John 6:46 ουχ οτι τον πατερα τις εωρακεν ει μη ο ων παρα του θεου ουτος εωρακεν τον πατερα
John 6:46 Not that any man hath seen the Father, save he which is of God, he hath seen the Father.
John 6:47 αμην αμην λεγω υμιν ο πιστευων εις εμε εχει ζωην αιωνιον
John 6:47 Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that believeth on me hath everlasting life.
John 6:48 εγω ειμι ο αρτος της ζωης
John 6:48 I am that bread of life.
John 6:49 οι πατερες υμων εφαγον το μαννα εν τη ερημω και απεθανον
John 6:49 Your fathers did eat manna in the wilderness, and are dead.
John 6:50 ουτος εστιν ο αρτος ο εκ του ουρανου καταβαινων ινα τις εξ αυτου φαγη και μη αποθανη
John 6:50 This is the bread which cometh down from heaven, that a man may eat thereof, and not die.
John 6:51 εγω ειμι ο αρτος ο ζων ο εκ του ουρανου καταβας εαν τις φαγη εκ τουτου του αρτου ζησεται εις τον αιωνα και ο αρτος δε ον εγω δωσω η σαρξ μου εστιν ην εγω δωσω υπερ της του κοσμου ζωης
John 6:51 I am the living bread which came down from heaven: if any man eat of this bread, he shall live for ever: and the bread that I will give is my flesh, which I will give for the life of the world.
John 6:52 εμαχοντο ουν προς αλληλους οι ιουδαιοι λεγοντες πως δυναται ουτος ημιν δουναι την σαρκα φαγειν
John 6:52 The Jews therefore strove among themselves, saying, How can this man give us his flesh to eat?
John 6:53 ειπεν ουν αυτοις ο ιησους αμην αμην λεγω υμιν εαν μη φαγητε την σαρκα του υιου του ανθρωπου και πιητε αυτου το αιμα ουκ εχετε ζωην εν εαυτοις
John 6:53 Then Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Except ye eat the flesh of the Son of man, and drink his blood, ye have no life in you.
John 6:54 ο τρωγων μου την σαρκα και πινων μου το αιμα εχει ζωην αιωνιον και εγω αναστησω αυτον τη εσχατη ημερα
John 6:54 Whoso eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood, hath eternal life; and I will raise him up at the last day.
John 6:55 η γαρ σαρξ μου αληθως εστιν βρωσις και το αιμα μου αληθως εστιν ποσις
John 6:55 For my flesh is meat indeed, and my blood is drink indeed.
John 6:56 ο τρωγων μου την σαρκα και πινων μου το αιμα εν εμοι μενει καγω εν αυτω
John 6:56 He that eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood, dwelleth in me, and I in him.
John 6:57 καθως απεστειλεν με ο ζων πατηρ καγω ζω δια τον πατερα και ο τρωγων με κακεινος ζησεται δι εμε
John 6:57 As the living Father hath sent me, and I live by the Father: so he that eateth me, even he shall live by me.
John 6:58 ουτος εστιν ο αρτος ο εκ του ουρανου καταβας ου καθως εφαγον οι πατερες υμων το μαννα και απεθανον ο τρωγων τουτον τον αρτον ζησεται εις τον αιωνα
John 6:58 This is that bread which came down from heaven: not as your fathers did eat manna, and are dead: he that eateth of this bread shall live for ever.
John 6:59 ταυτα ειπεν εν συναγωγη διδασκων εν καπερναουμ
John 6:59 These things said he in the synagogue, as he taught in Capernaum.
John 6:60 πολλοι ουν ακουσαντες εκ των μαθητων αυτου ειπον σκληρος εστιν ουτος ο λογος τις δυναται αυτου ακουειν
John 6:60 Many therefore of his disciples, when they had heard this, said, This is an hard saying; who can hear it?
John 6:61 ειδως δε ο ιησους εν εαυτω οτι γογγυζουσιν περι τουτου οι μαθηται αυτου ειπεν αυτοις τουτο υμας σκανδαλιζει
John 6:61 When Jesus knew in himself that his disciples murmured at it, he said unto them, Doth this offend you?
John 6:62 εαν ουν θεωρητε τον υιον του ανθρωπου αναβαινοντα οπου ην το προτερον
John 6:62 What and if ye shall see the Son of man ascend up where he was before?
John 6:63 το πνευμα εστιν το ζωοποιουν η σαρξ ουκ ωφελει ουδεν τα ρηματα α εγω λαλω υμιν πνευμα εστιν και ζωη εστιν
John 6:63 It is the spirit that quickeneth; the flesh profiteth nothing: the words that I speak unto you, they are spirit, and they are life.
John 6:64 αλλ εισιν εξ υμων τινες οι ου πιστευουσιν ηδει γαρ εξ αρχης ο ιησους τινες εισιν οι μη πιστευοντες και τις εστιν ο παραδωσων αυτον
John 6:64 But there are some of you that believe not. For Jesus knew from the beginning who they were that believed not, and who should betray him.
John 6:65 και ελεγεν δια τουτο ειρηκα υμιν οτι ουδεις δυναται ελθειν προς με εαν μη η δεδομενον αυτω εκ του πατρος μου
John 6:65 And he said, Therefore said I unto you, that no man can come unto me, except it were given unto him of my Father.
John 6:66 εκ τουτου πολλοι απηλθον των μαθητων αυτου εις τα οπισω και ουκετι μετ αυτου περιεπατουν
John 6:66 From that time many of his disciples went back, and walked no more with him.
John 6:67 ειπεν ουν ο ιησους τοις δωδεκα μη και υμεις θελετε υπαγειν
John 6:67 Then said Jesus unto the twelve, Will ye also go away?
John 6:68 απεκριθη ουν αυτω σιμων πετρος κυριε προς τινα απελευσομεθα ρηματα ζωης αιωνιου εχεις
John 6:68 Then Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? thou hast the words of eternal life.
John 6:69 και ημεις πεπιστευκαμεν και εγνωκαμεν οτι συ ει ο χριστος ο υιος του θεου του ζωντος
John 6:69 And we believe and are sure that thou art that Christ, the Son of the living God.
John 6:70 απεκριθη αυτοις ο ιησους ουκ εγω υμας τους δωδεκα εξελεξαμην και εξ υμων εις διαβολος εστιν
John 6:70 Jesus answered them, Have not I chosen you twelve, and one of you is a devil?
John 6:71 ελεγεν δε τον ιουδαν σιμωνος ισκαριωτην ουτος γαρ ημελλεν αυτον παραδιδοναι εις ων εκ των δωδεκα
John 6:71 He spake of Judas Iscariot the son of Simon: for he it was that should betray him, being one of the twelve.
John 7:1 και περιεπατει ο ιησους μετα ταυτα εν τη γαλιλαια ου γαρ ηθελεν εν τη ιουδαια περιπατειν οτι εζητουν αυτον οι ιουδαιοι αποκτειναι
John 7:1 After these things Jesus walked in Galilee: for he would not walk in Jewry, because the Jews sought to kill him.
John 7:2 ην δε εγγυς η εορτη των ιουδαιων η σκηνοπηγια
John 7:2 Now the Jew's feast of tabernacles was at hand.
John 7:3 ειπον ουν προς αυτον οι αδελφοι αυτου μεταβηθι εντευθεν και υπαγε εις την ιουδαιαν ινα και οι μαθηται σου θεωρησωσιν τα εργα σου α ποιεις
John 7:3 His brethren therefore said unto him, Depart hence, and go into Judaea, that thy disciples also may see the works that thou doest.
John 7:4 ουδεις γαρ εν κρυπτω τι ποιει και ζητει αυτος εν παρρησια ειναι ει ταυτα ποιεις φανερωσον σεαυτον τω κοσμω
John 7:4 For there is no man that doeth any thing in secret, and he himself seeketh to be known openly. If thou do these things, shew thyself to the world.
John 7:5 ουδε γαρ οι αδελφοι αυτου επιστευον εις αυτον
John 7:5 For neither did his brethren believe in him.
John 7:6 λεγει ουν αυτοις ο ιησους ο καιρος ο εμος ουπω παρεστιν ο δε καιρος ο υμετερος παντοτε εστιν ετοιμος
John 7:6 Then Jesus said unto them, My time is not yet come: but your time is alway ready.
John 7:7 ου δυναται ο κοσμος μισειν υμας εμε δε μισει οτι εγω μαρτυρω περι αυτου οτι τα εργα αυτου πονηρα εστιν
John 7:7 The world cannot hate you; but me it hateth, because I testify of it, that the works thereof are evil.
John 7:8 υμεις αναβητε εις την εορτην ταυτην εγω ουπω αναβαινω εις την εορτην ταυτην οτι ο καιρος ο εμος ουπω πεπληρωται
John 7:8 Go ye up unto this feast: I go not up yet unto this feast: for my time is not yet full come.
John 7:9 ταυτα δε ειπων αυτοις εμεινεν εν τη γαλιλαια
John 7:9 When he had said these words unto them, he abode still in Galilee.
John 7:10 ως δε ανεβησαν οι αδελφοι αυτου τοτε και αυτος ανεβη εις την εορτην ου φανερως αλλ ως εν κρυπτω
John 7:10 But when his brethren were gone up, then went he also up unto the feast, not openly, but as it were in secret.
John 7:11 οι ουν ιουδαιοι εζητουν αυτον εν τη εορτη και ελεγον που εστιν εκεινος
John 7:11 Then the Jews sought him at the feast, and said, Where is he?
John 7:12 και γογγυσμος πολυς περι αυτου ην εν τοις οχλοις οι μεν ελεγον οτι αγαθος εστιν αλλοι δε ελεγον ου αλλα πλανα τον οχλον
John 7:12 And there was much murmuring among the people concerning him: for some said, He is a good man: others said, Nay; but he deceiveth the people.
John 7:13 ουδεις μεντοι παρρησια ελαλει περι αυτου δια τον φοβον των ιουδαιων
John 7:13 Howbeit no man spake openly of him for fear of the Jews.
John 7:14 ηδη δε της εορτης μεσουσης ανεβη ο ιησους εις το ιερον και εδιδασκεν
John 7:14 Now about the midst of the feast Jesus went up into the temple, and taught.
John 7:15 και εθαυμαζον οι ιουδαιοι λεγοντες πως ουτος γραμματα οιδεν μη μεμαθηκως
John 7:15 And the Jews marvelled, saying, How knoweth this man letters, having never learned?
John 7:16 απεκριθη αυτοις ο ιησους και ειπεν η εμη διδαχη ουκ εστιν εμη αλλα του πεμψαντος με
John 7:16 Jesus answered them, and said, My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me.
John 7:17 εαν τις θελη το θελημα αυτου ποιειν γνωσεται περι της διδαχης ποτερον εκ του θεου εστιν η εγω απ εμαυτου λαλω
John 7:17 If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself.
John 7:18 ο αφ εαυτου λαλων την δοξαν την ιδιαν ζητει ο δε ζητων την δοξαν του πεμψαντος αυτον ουτος αληθης εστιν και αδικια εν αυτω ουκ εστιν
John 7:18 He that speaketh of himself seeketh his own glory: but he that seeketh his glory that sent him, the same is true, and no unrighteousness is in him.
John 7:19 ου μωσης δεδωκεν υμιν τον νομον και ουδεις εξ υμων ποιει τον νομον τι με ζητειτε αποκτειναι
John 7:19 Did not Moses give you the law, and yet none of you keepeth the law? Why go ye about to kill me?
John 7:20 απεκριθη ο οχλος και ειπεν δαιμονιον εχεις τις σε ζητει αποκτειναι
John 7:20 The people answered and said, Thou hast a devil: who goeth about to kill thee?
John 7:21 απεκριθη ο ιησους και ειπεν αυτοις εν εργον εποιησα και παντες θαυμαζετε
John 7:21 Jesus answered and said unto them, I have done one work, and ye all marvel.
John 7:22 δια τουτο μωσης δεδωκεν υμιν την περιτομην ουχ οτι εκ του μωσεως εστιν αλλ εκ των πατερων και εν σαββατω περιτεμνετε ανθρωπον
John 7:22 Moses therefore gave unto you circumcision; (not because it is of Moses, but of the fathers;) and ye on the sabbath day circumcise a man.
John 7:23 ει περιτομην λαμβανει ανθρωπος εν σαββατω ινα μη λυθη ο νομος μωσεως εμοι χολατε οτι ολον ανθρωπον υγιη εποιησα εν σαββατω
John 7:23 If a man on the sabbath day receive circumcision, that the law of Moses should not be broken; are ye angry at me, because I have made a man every whit whole on the sabbath day?
John 7:24 μη κρινετε κατ οψιν αλλα την δικαιαν κρισιν κρινατε
John 7:24 Judge not according to the appearance, but judge righteous judgment.
John 7:25 ελεγον ουν τινες εκ των ιεροσολυμιτων ουχ ουτος εστιν ον ζητουσιν αποκτειναι
John 7:25 Then said some of them of Jerusalem, Is not this he, whom they seek to kill?
John 7:26 και ιδε παρρησια λαλει και ουδεν αυτω λεγουσιν μηποτε αληθως εγνωσαν οι αρχοντες οτι ουτος εστιν αληθως ο χριστος
John 7:26 But, lo, he speaketh boldly, and they say nothing unto him. Do the rulers know indeed that this is the very Christ?
John 7:27 αλλα τουτον οιδαμεν ποθεν εστιν ο δε χριστος οταν ερχηται ουδεις γινωσκει ποθεν εστιν
John 7:27 Howbeit we know this man whence he is: but when Christ cometh, no man knoweth whence he is.
John 7:28 εκραξεν ουν εν τω ιερω διδασκων ο ιησους και λεγων καμε οιδατε και οιδατε ποθεν ειμι και απ εμαυτου ουκ εληλυθα αλλ εστιν αληθινος ο πεμψας με ον υμεις ουκ οιδατε
John 7:28 Then cried Jesus in the temple as he taught, saying, Ye both know me, and ye know whence I am: and I am not come of myself, but he that sent me is true, whom ye know not.
John 7:29 εγω δε οιδα αυτον οτι παρ αυτου ειμι κακεινος με απεστειλεν
John 7:29 But I know him: for I am from him, and he hath sent me.
John 7:30 εζητουν ουν αυτον πιασαι και ουδεις επεβαλεν επ αυτον την χειρα οτι ουπω εληλυθει η ωρα αυτου
John 7:30 Then they sought to take him: but no man laid hands on him, because his hour was not yet come.
John 7:31 πολλοι δε εκ του οχλου επιστευσαν εις αυτον και ελεγον οτι ο χριστος οταν ελθη μητι πλειονα σημεια τουτων ποιησει ων ουτος εποιησεν
John 7:31 And many of the people believed on him, and said, When Christ cometh, will he do more miracles than these which this man hath done?
John 7:32 ηκουσαν οι φαρισαιοι του οχλου γογγυζοντος περι αυτου ταυτα και απεστειλαν οι φαρισαιοι και οι αρχιερεις υπηρετας ινα πιασωσιν αυτον
John 7:32 The Pharisees heard that the people murmured such things concerning him; and the Pharisees and the chief priests sent officers to take him.
John 7:33 ειπεν ουν αυτοις ο ιησους ετι μικρον χρονον μεθ υμων ειμι και υπαγω προς τον πεμψαντα με
John 7:33 Then said Jesus unto them, Yet a little while am I with you, and then I go unto him that sent me.
John 7:34 ζητησετε με και ουχ ευρησετε και οπου ειμι εγω υμεις ου δυνασθε ελθειν
John 7:34 Ye shall seek me, and shall not find me: and where I am, thither ye cannot come.
John 7:35 ειπον ουν οι ιουδαιοι προς εαυτους που ουτος μελλει πορευεσθαι οτι ημεις ουχ ευρησομεν αυτον μη εις την διασποραν των ελληνων μελλει πορευεσθαι και διδασκειν τους ελληνας
John 7:35 Then said the Jews among themselves, Whither will he go, that we shall not find him? will he go unto the dispersed among the Gentiles, and teach the Gentiles?
John 7:36 τις εστιν ουτος ο λογος ον ειπεν ζητησετε με και ουχ ευρησετε και οπου ειμι εγω υμεις ου δυνασθε ελθειν
John 7:36 What manner of saying is this that he said, Ye shall seek me, and shall not find me: and where I am, thither ye cannot come?
John 7:37 εν δε τη εσχατη ημερα τη μεγαλη της εορτης ειστηκει ο ιησους και εκραξεν λεγων εαν τις διψα ερχεσθω προς με και πινετω
John 7:37 In the last day, that great day of the feast, Jesus stood and cried, saying, If any man thirst, let him come unto me, and drink.
John 7:38 ο πιστευων εις εμε καθως ειπεν η γραφη ποταμοι εκ της κοιλιας αυτου ρευσουσιν υδατος ζωντος
John 7:38 He that believeth on me, as the scripture hath said, out of his belly shall flow rivers of living water.
John 7:39 τουτο δε ειπεν περι του πνευματος ου εμελλον λαμβανειν οι πιστευοντες εις αυτον ουπω γαρ ην πνευμα αγιον οτι ο ιησους ουδεπω εδοξασθη
John 7:39 (But this spake he of the Spirit, which they that believe on him should receive: for the Holy Ghost was not yet given; because that Jesus was not yet glorified.)
John 7:40 πολλοι ουν εκ του οχλου ακουσαντες τον λογον ελεγον ουτος εστιν αληθως ο προφητης
John 7:40 Many of the people therefore, when they heard this saying, said, Of a truth this is the Prophet.
John 7:41 αλλοι ελεγον ουτος εστιν ο χριστος αλλοι δε ελεγον μη γαρ εκ της γαλιλαιας ο χριστος ερχεται
John 7:41 Others said, This is the Christ. But some said, Shall Christ come out of Galilee?
John 7:42 ουχι η γραφη ειπεν οτι εκ του σπερματος δαβιδ και απο βηθλεεμ της κωμης οπου ην δαβιδ ο χριστος ερχεται
John 7:42 Hath not the scripture said, That Christ cometh of the seed of David, and out of the town of Bethlehem, where David was?
John 7:43 σχισμα ουν εν τω οχλω εγενετο δι αυτον
John 7:43 So there was a division among the people because of him.
John 7:44 τινες δε ηθελον εξ αυτων πιασαι αυτον αλλ ουδεις επεβαλεν επ αυτον τας χειρας
John 7:44 And some of them would have taken him; but no man laid hands on him.
John 7:45 ηλθον ουν οι υπηρεται προς τους αρχιερεις και φαρισαιους και ειπον αυτοις εκεινοι διατι ουκ ηγαγετε αυτον
John 7:45 Then came the officers to the chief priests and Pharisees; and they said unto them, Why have ye not brought him?
John 7:46 απεκριθησαν οι υπηρεται ουδεποτε ουτως ελαλησεν ανθρωπος ως ουτος ο ανθρωπος
John 7:46 The officers answered, Never man spake like this man.
John 7:47 απεκριθησαν ουν αυτοις οι φαρισαιοι μη και υμεις πεπλανησθε
John 7:47 Then answered them the Pharisees, Are ye also deceived?
John 7:48 μη τις εκ των αρχοντων επιστευσεν εις αυτον η εκ των φαρισαιων
John 7:48 Have any of the rulers or of the Pharisees believed on him?
John 7:49 αλλ ο οχλος ουτος ο μη γινωσκων τον νομον επικαταρατοι εισιν
John 7:49 But this people who knoweth not the law are cursed.
John 7:50 λεγει νικοδημος προς αυτους ο ελθων νυκτος προς αυτον εις ων εξ αυτων
John 7:50 Nicodemus saith unto them, (he that came to Jesus by night, being one of them,)
John 7:51 μη ο νομος ημων κρινει τον ανθρωπον εαν μη ακουση παρ αυτου προτερον και γνω τι ποιει
John 7:51 Doth our law judge any man, before it hear him, and know what he doeth?
John 7:52 απεκριθησαν και ειπον αυτω μη και συ εκ της γαλιλαιας ει ερευνησον και ιδε οτι προφητης εκ της γαλιλαιας ουκ εγηγερται
John 7:52 They answered and said unto him, Art thou also of Galilee?  Search, and look: for out of Galilee ariseth no prophet.
John 7:53 και επορευθη εκαστος εις τον οικον αυτου
John 7:53 And every man went unto his own house.
John 8:1 ιησους δε επορευθη εις το ορος των ελαιων
John 8:1 Jesus went unto the mount of Olives.
John 8:2 ορθρου δε παλιν παρεγενετο εις το ιερον και πας ο λαος ηρχετο προς αυτον και καθισας εδιδασκεν αυτους
John 8:2 And early in the morning he came again into the temple, and all the people came unto him; and he sat down, and taught them.
John 8:3 αγουσιν δε οι γραμματεις και οι φαρισαιοι προς αυτον γυναικα εν μοιχεια κατειλημμενην και στησαντες αυτην εν μεσω
John 8:3 And the scribes and Pharisees brought unto him a woman taken in adultery; and when they had set her in the midst,
John 8:4 λεγουσιν αυτω διδασκαλε αυτη η γυνη κατειληφθη επαυτοφωρω μοιχευομενη
John 8:4 They say unto him, Master, this woman was taken in adultery, in the very act.
John 8:5 εν δε τω νομω μωσης ημιν ενετειλατο τας τοιαυτας λιθοβολεισθαι συ ουν τι λεγεις
John 8:5 Now Moses in the law commanded us, that such should be stoned: but what sayest thou?
John 8:6 τουτο δε ελεγον πειραζοντες αυτον ινα εχωσιν κατηγορειν αυτου ο δε ιησους κατω κυψας τω δακτυλω εγραφεν εις την γην
John 8:6 This they said, tempting him, that they might have to accuse him. But Jesus stooped down, and with his finger wrote on the ground, as though he heard them not.
John 8:7 ως δε επεμενον ερωτωντες αυτον ανακυψας ειπεν προς αυτους ο αναμαρτητος υμων πρωτος τον λιθον επ αυτη βαλετω
John 8:7 So when they continued asking him, he lifted up himself, and said unto them, He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her.
John 8:8 και παλιν κατω κυψας εγραφεν εις την γην
John 8:8 And again he stooped down, and wrote on the ground.
John 8:9 οι δε ακουσαντες και υπο της συνειδησεως ελεγχομενοι εξηρχοντο εις καθ εις αρξαμενοι απο των πρεσβυτερων εως των εσχατων και κατελειφθη μονος ο ιησους και η γυνη εν μεσω εστωσα
John 8:9 And they which heard it, being convicted by their own conscience, went out one by one, beginning at the eldest, even unto the last: and Jesus was left alone, and the woman standing in the midst.
John 8:10 ανακυψας δε ο ιησους και μηδενα θεασαμενος πλην της γυναικος ειπεν αυτη η γυνη που εισιν εκεινοι οι κατηγοροι σου ουδεις σε κατεκρινεν
John 8:10 When Jesus had lifted up himself, and saw none but the woman, he said unto her, Woman, where are those thine accusers? hath no man condemned thee?
John 8:11 η δε ειπεν ουδεις κυριε ειπεν δε αυτη ο ιησους ουδε εγω σε κατακρινω πορευου και μηκετι αμαρτανε
John 8:11 She said, No man, Lord. And Jesus said unto her, Neither do I condemn thee: go, and sin no more.
John 8:12 παλιν ουν ο ιησους αυτοις ελαλησεν λεγων εγω ειμι το φως του κοσμου ο ακολουθων εμοι ου μη περιπατησει εν τη σκοτια αλλ εξει το φως της ζωης
John 8:12 Then spake Jesus again unto them, saying, I am the light of the world: he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life.
John 8:13 ειπον ουν αυτω οι φαρισαιοι συ περι σεαυτου μαρτυρεις η μαρτυρια σου ουκ εστιν αληθης
John 8:13 The Pharisees therefore said unto him, Thou bearest record of thyself; thy record is not true.
John 8:14 απεκριθη ιησους και ειπεν αυτοις καν εγω μαρτυρω περι εμαυτου αληθης εστιν η μαρτυρια μου οτι οιδα ποθεν ηλθον και που υπαγω υμεις δε ουκ οιδατε ποθεν ερχομαι και που υπαγω
John 8:14 Jesus answered and said unto them, Though I bear record of myself, yet my record is true: for I know whence I came, and whither I go; but ye cannot tell whence I come, and whither I go.
John 8:15 υμεις κατα την σαρκα κρινετε εγω ου κρινω ουδενα
John 8:15 Ye judge after the flesh; I judge no man.
John 8:16 και εαν κρινω δε εγω η κρισις η εμη αληθης εστιν οτι μονος ουκ ειμι αλλ εγω και ο πεμψας με πατηρ
John 8:16 And yet if I judge, my judgment is true: for I am not alone, but I and the Father that sent me.
John 8:17 και εν τω νομω δε τω υμετερω γεγραπται οτι δυο ανθρωπων η μαρτυρια αληθης εστιν
John 8:17 It is also written in your law, that the testimony of two men is true.
John 8:18 εγω ειμι ο μαρτυρων περι εμαυτου και μαρτυρει περι εμου ο πεμψας με πατηρ
John 8:18 I am one that bear witness of myself, and the Father that sent me beareth witness of me.
John 8:19 ελεγον ουν αυτω που εστιν ο πατηρ σου απεκριθη ο ιησους ουτε εμε οιδατε ουτε τον πατερα μου ει εμε ηδειτε και τον πατερα μου ηδειτε αν
John 8:19 Then said they unto him, Where is thy Father? Jesus answered, Ye neither know me, nor my Father: if ye had known me, ye should have known my Father also.
John 8:20 ταυτα τα ρηματα ελαλησεν ο ιησους εν τω γαζοφυλακιω διδασκων εν τω ιερω και ουδεις επιασεν αυτον οτι ουπω εληλυθει η ωρα αυτου
John 8:20 These words spake Jesus in the treasury, as he taught in the temple: and no man laid hands on him; for his hour was not yet come.
John 8:21 ειπεν ουν παλιν αυτοις ο ιησους εγω υπαγω και ζητησετε με και εν τη αμαρτια υμων αποθανεισθε οπου εγω υπαγω υμεις ου δυνασθε ελθειν
John 8:21 Then said Jesus again unto them, I go my way, and ye shall seek me, and shall die in your sins: whither I go, ye cannot come.
John 8:22 ελεγον ουν οι ιουδαιοι μητι αποκτενει εαυτον οτι λεγει οπου εγω υπαγω υμεις ου δυνασθε ελθειν
John 8:22 Then said the Jews, Will he kill himself? because he saith, Whither I go, ye cannot come.
John 8:23 και ειπεν αυτοις υμεις εκ των κατω εστε εγω εκ των ανω ειμι υμεις εκ του κοσμου τουτου εστε εγω ουκ ειμι εκ του κοσμου τουτου
John 8:23 And he said unto them, Ye are from beneath; I am from above: ye are of this world; I am not of this world.
John 8:24 ειπον ουν υμιν οτι αποθανεισθε εν ταις αμαρτιαις υμων εαν γαρ μη πιστευσητε οτι εγω ειμι αποθανεισθε εν ταις αμαρτιαις υμων
John 8:24 I said therefore unto you, that ye shall die in your sins: for if ye believe not that I am he, ye shall die in your sins.
John 8:25 ελεγον ουν αυτω συ τις ει και ειπεν αυτοις ο ιησους την αρχην ο τι και λαλω υμιν
John 8:25 Then said they unto him, Who art thou? And Jesus saith unto them, Even the same that I said unto you from the beginning.
John 8:26 πολλα εχω περι υμων λαλειν και κρινειν αλλ ο πεμψας με αληθης εστιν καγω α ηκουσα παρ αυτου ταυτα λεγω εις τον κοσμον
John 8:26 I have many things to say and to judge of you: but he that sent me is true; and I speak to the world those things which I have heard of him.
John 8:27 ουκ εγνωσαν οτι τον πατερα αυτοις ελεγεν
John 8:27 They understood not that he spake to them of the Father.
John 8:28 ειπεν ουν αυτοις ο ιησους οταν υψωσητε τον υιον του ανθρωπου τοτε γνωσεσθε οτι εγω ειμι και απ εμαυτου ποιω ουδεν αλλα καθως εδιδαξεν με ο πατηρ μου ταυτα λαλω
John 8:28 Then said Jesus unto them, When ye have lifted up the Son of man, then shall ye know that I am he, and that I do nothing of myself; but as my Father hath taught me, I speak these things.
John 8:29 και ο πεμψας με μετ εμου εστιν ουκ αφηκεν με μονον ο πατηρ οτι εγω τα αρεστα αυτω ποιω παντοτε
John 8:29 And he that sent me is with me: the Father hath not left me alone; for I do always those things that please him.
John 8:30 ταυτα αυτου λαλουντος πολλοι επιστευσαν εις αυτον
John 8:30 As he spake these words, many believed on him.
John 8:31 ελεγεν ουν ο ιησους προς τους πεπιστευκοτας αυτω ιουδαιους εαν υμεις μεινητε εν τω λογω τω εμω αληθως μαθηται μου εστε
John 8:31 Then said Jesus to those Jews which believed on him, If ye continue in my word, then are ye my disciples indeed;
John 8:32 και γνωσεσθε την αληθειαν και η αληθεια ελευθερωσει υμας
John 8:32 And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free.
John 8:33 απεκριθησαν αυτω σπερμα αβρααμ εσμεν και ουδενι δεδουλευκαμεν πωποτε πως συ λεγεις οτι ελευθεροι γενησεσθε
John 8:33 They answered him, We be Abraham's seed, and were never in bondage to any man: how sayest thou, Ye shall be made free?
John 8:34 απεκριθη αυτοις ο ιησους αμην αμην λεγω υμιν οτι πας ο ποιων την αμαρτιαν δουλος εστιν της αμαρτιας
John 8:34 Jesus answered them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Whosoever committeth sin is the servant of sin.
John 8:35 ο δε δουλος ου μενει εν τη οικια εις τον αιωνα ο υιος μενει εις τον αιωνα
John 8:35 And the servant abideth not in the house for ever: but the Son abideth ever.
John 8:36 εαν ουν ο υιος υμας ελευθερωση οντως ελευθεροι εσεσθε
John 8:36 If the Son therefore shall make you free, ye shall be free indeed.
John 8:37 οιδα οτι σπερμα αβρααμ εστε αλλα ζητειτε με αποκτειναι οτι ο λογος ο εμος ου χωρει εν υμιν
John 8:37 I know that ye are Abraham's seed; but ye seek to kill me, because my word hath no place in you.
John 8:38 εγω ο εωρακα παρα τω πατρι μου λαλω και υμεις ουν ο εωρακατε παρα τω πατρι υμων ποιειτε
John 8:38 I speak that which I have seen with my Father: and ye do that which ye have seen with your father.
John 8:39 απεκριθησαν και ειπον αυτω ο πατηρ ημων αβρααμ εστιν λεγει αυτοις ο ιησους ει τεκνα του αβρααμ ητε τα εργα του αβρααμ εποιειτε αν
John 8:39 They answered and said unto him, Abraham is our father. Jesus saith unto them, If ye were Abraham's children, ye would do the works of Abraham.
John 8:40 νυν δε ζητειτε με αποκτειναι ανθρωπον ος την αληθειαν υμιν λελαληκα ην ηκουσα παρα του θεου τουτο αβρααμ ουκ εποιησεν
John 8:40 But now ye seek to kill me, a man that hath told you the truth, which I have heard of God: this did not Abraham.
John 8:41 υμεις ποιειτε τα εργα του πατρος υμων ειπον ουν αυτω ημεις εκ πορνειας ου γεγεννημεθα ενα πατερα εχομεν τον θεον
John 8:41 Ye do the deeds of your father. Then said they to him, We be not born of fornication; we have one Father, even God.
John 8:42 ειπεν ουν αυτοις ο ιησους ει ο θεος πατηρ υμων ην ηγαπατε αν εμε εγω γαρ εκ του θεου εξηλθον και ηκω ουδε γαρ απ εμαυτου εληλυθα αλλ εκεινος με απεστειλεν
John 8:42 Jesus said unto them, If God were your Father, ye would love me: for I proceeded forth and came from God; neither came I of myself, but he sent me.
John 8:43 διατι την λαλιαν την εμην ου γινωσκετε οτι ου δυνασθε ακουειν τον λογον τον εμον
John 8:43 Why do ye not understand my speech? even because ye cannot hear my word.
John 8:44 υμεις εκ πατρος του διαβολου εστε και τας επιθυμιας του πατρος υμων θελετε ποιειν εκεινος ανθρωποκτονος ην απ αρχης και εν τη αληθεια ουχ εστηκεν οτι ουκ εστιν αληθεια εν αυτω οταν λαλη το ψευδος εκ των ιδιων λαλει οτι ψευστης εστιν και ο πατηρ αυτου
John 8:44 Ye are of your father the devil, and the lusts of your father ye will do. He was a murderer from the beginning, and abode not in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he speaketh a lie, he speaketh of his own: for he is a liar, and the father of it.
John 8:45 εγω δε οτι την αληθειαν λεγω ου πιστευετε μοι
John 8:45 And because I tell you the truth, ye believe me not.
John 8:46 τις εξ υμων ελεγχει με περι αμαρτιας ει δε αληθειαν λεγω διατι υμεις ου πιστευετε μοι
John 8:46 Which of you convinceth me of sin? And if I say the truth, why do ye not believe me?
John 8:47 ο ων εκ του θεου τα ρηματα του θεου ακουει δια τουτο υμεις ουκ ακουετε οτι εκ του θεου ουκ εστε
John 8:47 He that is of God heareth God's words: ye therefore hear them not, because ye are not of God.
John 8:48 απεκριθησαν ουν οι ιουδαιοι και ειπον αυτω ου καλως λεγομεν ημεις οτι σαμαρειτης ει συ και δαιμονιον εχεις
John 8:48 Then answered the Jews, and said unto him, Say we not well that thou art a Samaritan, and hast a devil?
John 8:49 απεκριθη ιησους εγω δαιμονιον ουκ εχω αλλα τιμω τον πατερα μου και υμεις ατιμαζετε με
John 8:49 Jesus answered, I have not a devil; but I honour my Father, and ye do dishonour me.
John 8:50 εγω δε ου ζητω την δοξαν μου εστιν ο ζητων και κρινων
John 8:50 And I seek not mine own glory: there is one that seeketh and judgeth.
John 8:51 αμην αμην λεγω υμιν εαν τις τον λογον τον εμον τηρηση θανατον ου μη θεωρηση εις τον αιωνα
John 8:51 Verily, verily, I say unto you, If a man keep my saying, he shall never see death.
John 8:52 ειπον ουν αυτω οι ιουδαιοι νυν εγνωκαμεν οτι δαιμονιον εχεις αβρααμ απεθανεν και οι προφηται και συ λεγεις εαν τις τον λογον μου τηρηση ου μη γευσεται θανατου εις τον αιωνα
John 8:52 Then said the Jews unto him, Now we know that thou hast a devil. Abraham is dead, and the prophets; and thou sayest, If a man keep my saying, he shall never taste of death.
John 8:53 μη συ μειζων ει του πατρος ημων αβρααμ οστις απεθανεν και οι προφηται απεθανον τινα σεαυτον συ ποιεις
John 8:53 Art thou greater than our father Abraham, which is dead? and the prophets are dead: whom makest thou thyself?
John 8:54 απεκριθη ιησους εαν εγω δοξαζω εμαυτον η δοξα μου ουδεν εστιν εστιν ο πατηρ μου ο δοξαζων με ον υμεις λεγετε οτι θεος υμων εστιν
John 8:54 Jesus answered, If I honour myself, my honour is nothing: it is my Father that honoureth me; of whom ye say, that he is your God:
John 8:55 και ουκ εγνωκατε αυτον εγω δε οιδα αυτον και εαν ειπω οτι ουκ οιδα αυτον εσομαι ομοιος υμων ψευστης αλλ οιδα αυτον και τον λογον αυτου τηρω
John 8:55 Yet ye have not known him; but I know him: and if I should say, I know him not, I shall be a liar like unto you: but I know him, and keep his saying.
John 8:56 αβρααμ ο πατηρ υμων ηγαλλιασατο ινα ιδη την ημεραν την εμην και ειδεν και εχαρη
John 8:56 Your father Abraham rejoiced to see my day: and he saw it, and was glad.
John 8:57 ειπον ουν οι ιουδαιοι προς αυτον πεντηκοντα ετη ουπω εχεις και αβρααμ εωρακας
John 8:57 Then said the Jews unto him, Thou art not yet fifty years old, and hast thou seen Abraham?
John 8:58 ειπεν αυτοις ο ιησους αμην αμην λεγω υμιν πριν αβρααμ γενεσθαι εγω ειμι
John 8:58 Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Before Abraham was, I am.
John 8:59 ηραν ουν λιθους ινα βαλωσιν επ αυτον ιησους δε εκρυβη και εξηλθεν εκ του ιερου διελθων δια μεσου αυτων και παρηγεν ουτως
John 8:59 Then took they up stones to cast at him: but Jesus hid himself, and went out of the temple, going through the midst of them, and so passed by.
John 9:1 και παραγων ειδεν ανθρωπον τυφλον εκ γενετης
John 9:1 And as Jesus passed by, he saw a man which was blind from his birth.
John 9:2 και ηρωτησαν αυτον οι μαθηται αυτου λεγοντες ραββι τις ημαρτεν ουτος η οι γονεις αυτου ινα τυφλος γεννηθη
John 9:2 And his disciples asked him, saying, Master, who did sin, this man, or his parents, that he was born blind?
John 9:3 απεκριθη ο ιησους ουτε ουτος ημαρτεν ουτε οι γονεις αυτου αλλ ινα φανερωθη τα εργα του θεου εν αυτω
John 9:3 Jesus answered, Neither hath this man sinned, nor his parents: but that the works of God should be made manifest in him.
John 9:4 εμε δει εργαζεσθαι τα εργα του πεμψαντος με εως ημερα εστιν ερχεται νυξ οτε ουδεις δυναται εργαζεσθαι
John 9:4 I must work the works of him that sent me, while it is day: the night cometh, when no man can work.
John 9:5 οταν εν τω κοσμω ω φως ειμι του κοσμου
John 9:5 As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world.
John 9:6 ταυτα ειπων επτυσεν χαμαι και εποιησεν πηλον εκ του πτυσματος και επεχρισεν τον πηλον επι τους οφθαλμους του τυφλου
John 9:6 When he had thus spoken, he spat on the ground, and made clay of the spittle, and he anointed the eyes of the blind man with the clay,
John 9:7 και ειπεν αυτω υπαγε νιψαι εις την κολυμβηθραν του σιλωαμ ο ερμηνευεται απεσταλμενος απηλθεν ουν και ενιψατο και ηλθεν βλεπων
John 9:7 And said unto him, Go, wash in the pool of Siloam, (which is by interpretation, Sent.) He went his way therefore, and washed, and came seeing.
John 9:8 οι ουν γειτονες και οι θεωρουντες αυτον το προτερον οτι τυφλος ην ελεγον ουχ ουτος εστιν ο καθημενος και προσαιτων
John 9:8 The neighbours therefore, and they which before had seen him that he was blind, said, Is not this he that sat and begged?
John 9:9 αλλοι ελεγον οτι ουτος εστιν αλλοι δε οτι ομοιος αυτω εστιν εκεινος ελεγεν οτι εγω ειμι
John 9:9 Some said, This is he: others said, He is like him: but he said, I am he.
John 9:10 ελεγον ουν αυτω πως ανεωχθησαν σου οι οφθαλμοι
John 9:10 Therefore said they unto him, How were thine eyes opened?
John 9:11 απεκριθη εκεινος και ειπεν ανθρωπος λεγομενος ιησους πηλον εποιησεν και επεχρισεν μου τους οφθαλμους και ειπεν μοι υπαγε εις την κολυμβηθραν του σιλωαμ και νιψαι απελθων δε και νιψαμενος ανεβλεψα
John 9:11 He answered and said, A man that is called Jesus made clay, and anointed mine eyes, and said unto me, Go to the pool of Siloam, and wash: and I went and washed, and I received sight.
John 9:12 ειπον ουν αυτω που εστιν εκεινος λεγει ουκ οιδα
John 9:12 Then said they unto him, Where is he? He said, I know not.
John 9:13 αγουσιν αυτον προς τους φαρισαιους τον ποτε τυφλον
John 9:13 They brought to the Pharisees him that aforetime was blind.
John 9:14 ην δε σαββατον οτε τον πηλον εποιησεν ο ιησους και ανεωξεν αυτου τους οφθαλμους
John 9:14 And it was the sabbath day when Jesus made the clay, and opened his eyes.
John 9:15 παλιν ουν ηρωτων αυτον και οι φαρισαιοι πως ανεβλεψεν ο δε ειπεν αυτοις πηλον επεθηκεν επι τους οφθαλμους μου και ενιψαμην και βλεπω
John 9:15 Then again the Pharisees also asked him how he had received his sight. He said unto them, He put clay upon mine eyes, and I washed, and do see.
John 9:16 ελεγον ουν εκ των φαρισαιων τινες ουτος ο ανθρωπος ουκ εστιν παρα του θεου οτι το σαββατον ου τηρει αλλοι ελεγον πως δυναται ανθρωπος αμαρτωλος τοιαυτα σημεια ποιειν και σχισμα ην εν αυτοις
John 9:16 Therefore said some of the Pharisees, This man is not of God, because he keepeth not the sabbath day. Others said, How can a man that is a sinner do such miracles? And there was a division among them.
John 9:17 λεγουσιν τω τυφλω παλιν συ τι λεγεις περι αυτου οτι ηνοιξεν σου τους οφθαλμους ο δε ειπεν οτι προφητης εστιν
John 9:17 They say unto the blind man again, What sayest thou of him, that he hath opened thine eyes? He said, He is a prophet.
John 9:18 ουκ επιστευσαν ουν οι ιουδαιοι περι αυτου οτι τυφλος ην και ανεβλεψεν εως οτου εφωνησαν τους γονεις αυτου του αναβλεψαντος
John 9:18 But the Jews did not believe concerning him, that he had been blind, and received his sight, until they called the parents of him that had received his sight.
John 9:19 και ηρωτησαν αυτους λεγοντες ουτος εστιν ο υιος υμων ον υμεις λεγετε οτι τυφλος εγεννηθη πως ουν αρτι βλεπει
John 9:19 And they asked them, saying, Is this your son, who ye say was born blind? how then doth he now see?
John 9:20 απεκριθησαν αυτοις οι γονεις αυτου και ειπον οιδαμεν οτι ουτος εστιν ο υιος ημων και οτι τυφλος εγεννηθη
John 9:20 His parents answered them and said, We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind:
John 9:21 πως δε νυν βλεπει ουκ οιδαμεν η τις ηνοιξεν αυτου τους οφθαλμους ημεις ουκ οιδαμεν αυτος ηλικιαν εχει αυτον ερωτησατε αυτος περι αυτου λαλησει
John 9:21 But by what means he now seeth, we know not; or who hath opened his eyes, we know not: he is of age; ask him: he shall speak for himself.
John 9:22 ταυτα ειπον οι γονεις αυτου οτι εφοβουντο τους ιουδαιους ηδη γαρ συνετεθειντο οι ιουδαιοι ινα εαν τις αυτον ομολογηση χριστον αποσυναγωγος γενηται
John 9:22 These words spake his parents, because they feared the Jews: for the Jews had agreed already, that if any man did confess that he was Christ, he should be put out of the synagogue.
John 9:23 δια τουτο οι γονεις αυτου ειπον οτι ηλικιαν εχει αυτον ερωτησατε
John 9:23 Therefore said his parents, He is of age; ask him.
John 9:24 εφωνησαν ουν εκ δευτερου τον ανθρωπον ος ην τυφλος και ειπον αυτω δος δοξαν τω θεω ημεις οιδαμεν οτι ο ανθρωπος ουτος αμαρτωλος εστιν
John 9:24 Then again called they the man that was blind, and said unto him, Give God the praise: we know that this man is a sinner.
John 9:25 απεκριθη ουν εκεινος και ειπεν ει αμαρτωλος εστιν ουκ οιδα εν οιδα οτι τυφλος ων αρτι βλεπω
John 9:25 He answered and said, Whether he be a sinner or no, I know not: one thing I know, that, whereas I was blind, now I see.
John 9:26 ειπον δε αυτω παλιν τι εποιησεν σοι πως ηνοιξεν σου τους οφθαλμους
John 9:26 Then said they to him again, What did he to thee? how opened he thine eyes?
John 9:27 απεκριθη αυτοις ειπον υμιν ηδη και ουκ ηκουσατε τι παλιν θελετε ακουειν μη και υμεις θελετε αυτου μαθηται γενεσθαι
John 9:27 He answered them, I have told you already, and ye did not hear: wherefore would ye hear it again? will ye also be his disciples?
John 9:28 ελοιδορησαν ουν αυτον και ειπον συ ει μαθητης εκεινου ημεις δε του μωσεως εσμεν μαθηται
John 9:28 Then they reviled him, and said, Thou art his disciple; but we are Moses' disciples.
John 9:29 ημεις οιδαμεν οτι μωση λελαληκεν ο θεος τουτον δε ουκ οιδαμεν ποθεν εστιν
John 9:29 We know that God spake unto Moses: as for this fellow, we know not from whence he is.
John 9:30 απεκριθη ο ανθρωπος και ειπεν αυτοις εν γαρ τουτω θαυμαστον εστιν οτι υμεις ουκ οιδατε ποθεν εστιν και ανεωξεν μου τους οφθαλμους
John 9:30 The man answered and said unto them, Why herein is a marvellous thing, that ye know not from whence he is, and yet he hath opened mine eyes.
John 9:31 οιδαμεν δε οτι αμαρτωλων ο θεος ουκ ακουει αλλ εαν τις θεοσεβης η και το θελημα αυτου ποιη τουτου ακουει
John 9:31 Now we know that God heareth not sinners: but if any man be a worshipper of God, and doeth his will, him he heareth.
John 9:32 εκ του αιωνος ουκ ηκουσθη οτι ηνοιξεν τις οφθαλμους τυφλου γεγεννημενου
John 9:32 Since the world began was it not heard that any man opened the eyes of one that was born blind.
John 9:33 ει μη ην ουτος παρα θεου ουκ ηδυνατο ποιειν ουδεν
John 9:33 If this man were not of God, he could do nothing.
John 9:34 απεκριθησαν και ειπον αυτω εν αμαρτιαις συ εγεννηθης ολος και συ διδασκεις ημας και εξεβαλον αυτον εξω
John 9:34 They answered and said unto him, Thou wast altogether born in sins, and dost thou teach us? And they cast him out.
John 9:35 ηκουσεν ο ιησους οτι εξεβαλον αυτον εξω και ευρων αυτον ειπεν αυτω συ πιστευεις εις τον υιον του θεου
John 9:35 Jesus heard that they had cast him out; and when he had found him, he said unto him, Dost thou believe on the Son of God?
John 9:36 απεκριθη εκεινος και ειπεν τις εστιν κυριε ινα πιστευσω εις αυτον
John 9:36 He answered and said, Who is he, Lord, that I might believe on him?
John 9:37 ειπεν δε αυτω ο ιησους και εωρακας αυτον και ο λαλων μετα σου εκεινος εστιν
John 9:37 And Jesus said unto him, Thou hast both seen him, and it is he that talketh with thee.
John 9:38 ο δε εφη πιστευω κυριε και προσεκυνησεν αυτω
John 9:38 And he said, Lord, I believe. And he worshipped him.
John 9:39 και ειπεν ο ιησους εις κριμα εγω εις τον κοσμον τουτον ηλθον ινα οι μη βλεποντες βλεπωσιν και οι βλεποντες τυφλοι γενωνται
John 9:39 And Jesus said, For judgment I am come into this world, that they which see not might see; and that they which see might be made blind.
John 9:40 και ηκουσαν εκ των φαρισαιων ταυτα οι οντες μετ αυτου και ειπον αυτω μη και ημεις τυφλοι εσμεν
John 9:40 And some of the Pharisees which were with him heard these words, and said unto him, Are we blind also?
John 9:41 ειπεν αυτοις ο ιησους ει τυφλοι ητε ουκ αν ειχετε αμαρτιαν νυν δε λεγετε οτι βλεπομεν η ουν αμαρτια υμων μενει
John 9:41 Jesus said unto them, If ye were blind, ye should have no sin: but now ye say, We see; therefore your sin remaineth.
John 10:1 αμην αμην λεγω υμιν ο μη εισερχομενος δια της θυρας εις την αυλην των προβατων αλλα αναβαινων αλλαχοθεν εκεινος κλεπτης εστιν και ληστης
John 10:1 Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that entereth not by the door into the sheepfold, but climbeth up some other way, the same is a thief and a robber.
John 10:2 ο δε εισερχομενος δια της θυρας ποιμην εστιν των προβατων
John 10:2 But he that entereth in by the door is the shepherd of the sheep.
John 10:3 τουτω ο θυρωρος ανοιγει και τα προβατα της φωνης αυτου ακουει και τα ιδια προβατα καλει κατ ονομα και εξαγει αυτα
John 10:3 To him the porter openeth; and the sheep hear his voice: and he calleth his own sheep by name, and leadeth them out.
John 10:4 και οταν τα ιδια προβατα εκβαλη εμπροσθεν αυτων πορευεται και τα προβατα αυτω ακολουθει οτι οιδασιν την φωνην αυτου
John 10:4 And when he putteth forth his own sheep, he goeth before them, and the sheep follow him: for they know his voice.
John 10:5 αλλοτριω δε ου μη ακολουθησωσιν αλλα φευξονται απ αυτου οτι ουκ οιδασιν των αλλοτριων την φωνην
John 10:5 And a stranger will they not follow, but will flee from him: for they know not the voice of strangers.
John 10:6 ταυτην την παροιμιαν ειπεν αυτοις ο ιησους εκεινοι δε ουκ εγνωσαν τινα ην α ελαλει αυτοις
John 10:6 This parable spake Jesus unto them: but they understood not what things they were which he spake unto them.
John 10:7 ειπεν ουν παλιν αυτοις ο ιησους αμην αμην λεγω υμιν οτι εγω ειμι η θυρα των προβατων
John 10:7 Then said Jesus unto them again, Verily, verily, I say unto you, I am the door of the sheep.
John 10:8 παντες οσοι προ εμου ηλθον κλεπται εισιν και λησται αλλ ουκ ηκουσαν αυτων τα προβατα
John 10:8 All that ever came before me are thieves and robbers: but the sheep did not hear them.
John 10:9 εγω ειμι η θυρα δι εμου εαν τις εισελθη σωθησεται και εισελευσεται και εξελευσεται και νομην ευρησει
John 10:9 I am the door: by me if any man enter in, he shall be saved, and shall go in and out, and find pasture.
John 10:10 ο κλεπτης ουκ ερχεται ει μη ινα κλεψη και θυση και απολεση εγω ηλθον ινα ζωην εχωσιν και περισσον εχωσιν
John 10:10 The thief cometh not, but for to steal, and to kill, and to destroy: I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly.
John 10:11 εγω ειμι ο ποιμην ο καλος ο ποιμην ο καλος την ψυχην αυτου τιθησιν υπερ των προβατων
John 10:11 I am the good shepherd: the good shepherd giveth his life for the sheep.
John 10:12 ο μισθωτος δε και ουκ ων ποιμην ου ουκ εισιν τα προβατα ιδια θεωρει τον λυκον ερχομενον και αφιησιν τα προβατα και φευγει και ο λυκος αρπαζει αυτα και σκορπιζει τα προβατα
John 10:12 But he that is an hireling, and not the shepherd, whose own the sheep are not, seeth the wolf coming, and leaveth the sheep, and fleeth: and the wolf catcheth them, and scattereth the sheep.
John 10:13 ο δε μισθωτος φευγει οτι μισθωτος εστιν και ου μελει αυτω περι των προβατων
John 10:13 The hireling fleeth, because he is an hireling, and careth not for the sheep.
John 10:14 εγω ειμι ο ποιμην ο καλος και γινωσκω τα εμα και γινωσκομαι υπο των εμων
John 10:14 I am the good shepherd, and know my sheep, and am known of mine.
John 10:15 καθως γινωσκει με ο πατηρ καγω γινωσκω τον πατερα και την ψυχην μου τιθημι υπερ των προβατων
John 10:15 As the Father knoweth me, even so know I the Father: and I lay down my life for the sheep.
John 10:16 και αλλα προβατα εχω α ουκ εστιν εκ της αυλης ταυτης κακεινα με δει αγαγειν και της φωνης μου ακουσουσιν και γενησεται μια ποιμνη εις ποιμην
John 10:16 And other sheep I have, which are not of this fold: them also I must bring, and they shall hear my voice; and there shall be one fold, and one shepherd.
John 10:17 δια τουτο ο πατηρ με αγαπα οτι εγω τιθημι την ψυχην μου ινα παλιν λαβω αυτην
John 10:17 Therefore doth my Father love me, because I lay down my life, that I might take it again.
John 10:18 ουδεις αιρει αυτην απ εμου αλλ εγω τιθημι αυτην απ εμαυτου εξουσιαν εχω θειναι αυτην και εξουσιαν εχω παλιν λαβειν αυτην ταυτην την εντολην ελαβον παρα του πατρος μου
John 10:18 No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself. I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it again. This commandment have I received of my Father.
John 10:19 σχισμα ουν παλιν εγενετο εν τοις ιουδαιοις δια τους λογους τουτους
John 10:19 There was a division therefore again among the Jews for these sayings.
John 10:20 ελεγον δε πολλοι εξ αυτων δαιμονιον εχει και μαινεται τι αυτου ακουετε
John 10:20 And many of them said, He hath a devil, and is mad; why hear ye him?
John 10:21 αλλοι ελεγον ταυτα τα ρηματα ουκ εστιν δαιμονιζομενου μη δαιμονιον δυναται τυφλων οφθαλμους ανοιγειν
John 10:21 Others said, These are not the words of him that hath a devil.  Can a devil open the eyes of the blind?
John 10:22 εγενετο δε τα εγκαινια εν τοις ιεροσολυμοις και χειμων ην
John 10:22 And it was at Jerusalem the feast of the dedication, and it was winter.
John 10:23 και περιεπατει ο ιησους εν τω ιερω εν τη στοα του σολομωντος
John 10:23 And Jesus walked in the temple in Solomon's porch.
John 10:24 εκυκλωσαν ουν αυτον οι ιουδαιοι και ελεγον αυτω εως ποτε την ψυχην ημων αιρεις ει συ ει ο χριστος ειπε ημιν παρρησια
John 10:24 Then came the Jews round about him, and said unto him, How long dost thou make us to doubt? If thou be the Christ, tell us plainly.
John 10:25 απεκριθη αυτοις ο ιησους ειπον υμιν και ου πιστευετε τα εργα α εγω ποιω εν τω ονοματι του πατρος μου ταυτα μαρτυρει περι εμου
John 10:25 Jesus answered them, I told you, and ye believed not: the works that I do in my Father's name, they bear witness of me.
John 10:26 αλλ υμεις ου πιστευετε ου γαρ εστε εκ των προβατων των εμων καθως ειπον υμιν
John 10:26 But ye believe not, because ye are not of my sheep, as I said unto you.
John 10:27 τα προβατα τα εμα της φωνης μου ακουει καγω γινωσκω αυτα και ακολουθουσιν μοι
John 10:27 My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me:
John 10:28 καγω ζωην αιωνιον διδωμι αυτοις και ου μη απολωνται εις τον αιωνα και ουχ αρπασει τις αυτα εκ της χειρος μου
John 10:28 And I give unto them eternal life; and they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand.
John 10:29 ο πατηρ μου ος δεδωκεν μοι μειζων παντων εστιν και ουδεις δυναται αρπαζειν εκ της χειρος του πατρος μου
John 10:29 My Father, which gave them me, is greater than all; and no man is able to pluck them out of my Father's hand.
John 10:30 εγω και ο πατηρ εν εσμεν
John 10:30 I and my Father are one.
John 10:31 εβαστασαν ουν παλιν λιθους οι ιουδαιοι ινα λιθασωσιν αυτον
John 10:31 Then the Jews took up stones again to stone him.
John 10:32 απεκριθη αυτοις ο ιησους πολλα καλα εργα εδειξα υμιν εκ του πατρος μου δια ποιον αυτων εργον λιθαζετε με
John 10:32 Jesus answered them, Many good works have I shewed you from my Father; for which of those works do ye stone me?
John 10:33 απεκριθησαν αυτω οι ιουδαιοι λεγοντες περι καλου εργου ου λιθαζομεν σε αλλα περι βλασφημιας και οτι συ ανθρωπος ων ποιεις σεαυτον θεον
John 10:33 The Jews answered him, saying, For a good work we stone thee not; but for blasphemy; and because that thou, being a man, makest thyself God.
John 10:34 απεκριθη αυτοις ο ιησους ουκ εστιν γεγραμμενον εν τω νομω υμων εγω ειπα θεοι εστε
John 10:34 Jesus answered them, Is it not written in your law, I said, Ye are gods?
John 10:35 ει εκεινους ειπεν θεους προς ους ο λογος του θεου εγενετο και ου δυναται λυθηναι η γραφη
John 10:35 If he called them gods, unto whom the word of God came, and the scripture cannot be broken;
John 10:36 ον ο πατηρ ηγιασεν και απεστειλεν εις τον κοσμον υμεις λεγετε οτι βλασφημεις οτι ειπον υιος του θεου ειμι
John 10:36 Say ye of him, whom the Father hath sanctified, and sent into the world, Thou blasphemest; because I said, I am the Son of God?
John 10:37 ει ου ποιω τα εργα του πατρος μου μη πιστευετε μοι
John 10:37 If I do not the works of my Father, believe me not.
John 10:38 ει δε ποιω καν εμοι μη πιστευητε τοις εργοις πιστευσατε ινα γνωτε και πιστευσητε οτι εν εμοι ο πατηρ καγω εν αυτω
John 10:38 But if I do, though ye believe not me, believe the works: that ye may know, and believe, that the Father is in me, and I in him.
John 10:39 εζητουν ουν παλιν αυτον πιασαι και εξηλθεν εκ της χειρος αυτων
John 10:39 Therefore they sought again to take him: but he escaped out of their hand,
John 10:40 και απηλθεν παλιν περαν του ιορδανου εις τον τοπον οπου ην ιωαννης το πρωτον βαπτιζων και εμεινεν εκει
John 10:40 And went away again beyond Jordan into the place where John at first baptized; and there he abode.
John 10:41 και πολλοι ηλθον προς αυτον και ελεγον οτι ιωαννης μεν σημειον εποιησεν ουδεν παντα δε οσα ειπεν ιωαννης περι τουτου αληθη ην
John 10:41 And many resorted unto him, and said, John did no miracle: but all things that John spake of this man were true.
John 10:42 και επιστευσαν πολλοι εκει εις αυτον
John 10:42 And many believed on him there.
John 11:1 ην δε τις ασθενων λαζαρος απο βηθανιας εκ της κωμης μαριας και μαρθας της αδελφης αυτης
John 11:1 Now a certain man was sick, named Lazarus, of Bethany, the town of Mary and her sister Martha.
John 11:2 ην δε μαρια η αλειψασα τον κυριον μυρω και εκμαξασα τους ποδας αυτου ταις θριξιν αυτης ης ο αδελφος λαζαρος ησθενει
John 11:2 (It was that Mary which anointed the Lord with ointment, and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was sick.)
John 11:3 απεστειλαν ουν αι αδελφαι προς αυτον λεγουσαι κυριε ιδε ον φιλεις ασθενει
John 11:3 Therefore his sisters sent unto him, saying, Lord, behold, he whom thou lovest is sick.
John 11:4 ακουσας δε ο ιησους ειπεν αυτη η ασθενεια ουκ εστιν προς θανατον αλλ υπερ της δοξης του θεου ινα δοξασθη ο υιος του θεου δι αυτης
John 11:4 When Jesus heard that, he said, This sickness is not unto death, but for the glory of God, that the Son of God might be glorified thereby.
John 11:5 ηγαπα δε ο ιησους την μαρθαν και την αδελφην αυτης και τον λαζαρον
John 11:5 Now Jesus loved Martha, and her sister, and Lazarus.
John 11:6 ως ουν ηκουσεν οτι ασθενει τοτε μεν εμεινεν εν ω ην τοπω δυο ημερας
John 11:6 When he had heard therefore that he was sick, he abode two days still in the same place where he was.
John 11:7 επειτα μετα τουτο λεγει τοις μαθηταις αγωμεν εις την ιουδαιαν παλιν
John 11:7 Then after that saith he to his disciples, Let us go into Judaea again.
John 11:8 λεγουσιν αυτω οι μαθηται ραββι νυν εζητουν σε λιθασαι οι ιουδαιοι και παλιν υπαγεις εκει
John 11:8 His disciples say unto him, Master, the Jews of late sought to stone thee; and goest thou thither again?
John 11:9 απεκριθη ο ιησους ουχι δωδεκα εισιν ωραι της ημερας εαν τις περιπατη εν τη ημερα ου προσκοπτει οτι το φως του κοσμου τουτου βλεπει
John 11:9 Jesus answered, Are there not twelve hours in the day? If any man walk in the day, he stumbleth not, because he seeth the light of this world.
John 11:10 εαν δε τις περιπατη εν τη νυκτι προσκοπτει οτι το φως ουκ εστιν εν αυτω
John 11:10 But if a man walk in the night, he stumbleth, because there is no light in him.
John 11:11 ταυτα ειπεν και μετα τουτο λεγει αυτοις λαζαρος ο φιλος ημων κεκοιμηται αλλα πορευομαι ινα εξυπνισω αυτον
John 11:11 These things said he: and after that he saith unto them, Our friend Lazarus sleepeth; but I go, that I may awake him out of sleep.
John 11:12 ειπον ουν οι μαθηται αυτου κυριε ει κεκοιμηται σωθησεται
John 11:12 Then said his disciples, Lord, if he sleep, he shall do well.
John 11:13 ειρηκει δε ο ιησους περι του θανατου αυτου εκεινοι δε εδοξαν οτι περι της κοιμησεως του υπνου λεγει
John 11:13 Howbeit Jesus spake of his death: but they thought that he had spoken of taking of rest in sleep.
John 11:14 τοτε ουν ειπεν αυτοις ο ιησους παρρησια λαζαρος απεθανεν
John 11:14 Then said Jesus unto them plainly, Lazarus is dead.
John 11:15 και χαιρω δι υμας ινα πιστευσητε οτι ουκ ημην εκει αλλ αγωμεν προς αυτον
John 11:15 And I am glad for your sakes that I was not there, to the intent ye may believe; nevertheless let us go unto him.
John 11:16 ειπεν ουν θωμας ο λεγομενος διδυμος τοις συμμαθηταις αγωμεν και ημεις ινα αποθανωμεν μετ αυτου
John 11:16 Then said Thomas, which is called Didymus, unto his fellowdisciples, Let us also go, that we may die with him.
John 11:17 ελθων ουν ο ιησους ευρεν αυτον τεσσαρας ημερας ηδη εχοντα εν τω μνημειω
John 11:17 Then when Jesus came, he found that he had lain in the grave four days already.
John 11:18 ην δε η βηθανια εγγυς των ιεροσολυμων ως απο σταδιων δεκαπεντε
John 11:18 Now Bethany was nigh unto Jerusalem, about fifteen furlongs off:
John 11:19 και πολλοι εκ των ιουδαιων εληλυθεισαν προς τας περι μαρθαν και μαριαν ινα παραμυθησωνται αυτας περι του αδελφου αυτων
John 11:19 And many of the Jews came to Martha and Mary, to comfort them concerning their brother.
John 11:20 η ουν μαρθα ως ηκουσεν οτι ο ιησους ερχεται υπηντησεν αυτω μαρια δε εν τω οικω εκαθεζετο
John 11:20 Then Martha, as soon as she heard that Jesus was coming, went and met him: but Mary sat still in the house.
John 11:21 ειπεν ουν η μαρθα προς τον ιησουν κυριε ει ης ωδε ο αδελφος μου ουκ αν ετεθνηκει
John 11:21 Then said Martha unto Jesus, Lord, if thou hadst been here, my brother had not died.
John 11:22 αλλα και νυν οιδα οτι οσα αν αιτηση τον θεον δωσει σοι ο θεος
John 11:22 But I know, that even now, whatsoever thou wilt ask of God, God will give it thee.
John 11:23 λεγει αυτη ο ιησους αναστησεται ο αδελφος σου
John 11:23 Jesus saith unto her, Thy brother shall rise again.
John 11:24 λεγει αυτω μαρθα οιδα οτι αναστησεται εν τη αναστασει εν τη εσχατη ημερα
John 11:24 Martha saith unto him, I know that he shall rise again in the resurrection at the last day.
John 11:25 ειπεν αυτη ο ιησους εγω ειμι η αναστασις και η ζωη ο πιστευων εις εμε καν αποθανη ζησεται
John 11:25 Jesus said unto her, I am the resurrection, and the life: he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live:
John 11:26 και πας ο ζων και πιστευων εις εμε ου μη αποθανη εις τον αιωνα πιστευεις τουτο
John 11:26 And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die.  Believest thou this?
John 11:27 λεγει αυτω ναι κυριε εγω πεπιστευκα οτι συ ει ο χριστος ο υιος του θεου ο εις τον κοσμον ερχομενος
John 11:27 She saith unto him, Yea, Lord: I believe that thou art the Christ, the Son of God, which should come into the world.
John 11:28 και ταυτα ειπουσα απηλθεν και εφωνησεν μαριαν την αδελφην αυτης λαθρα ειπουσα ο διδασκαλος παρεστιν και φωνει σε
John 11:28 And when she had so said, she went her way, and called Mary her sister secretly, saying, The Master is come, and calleth for thee.
John 11:29 εκεινη ως ηκουσεν εγειρεται ταχυ και ερχεται προς αυτον
John 11:29 As soon as she heard that, she arose quickly, and came unto him.
John 11:30 ουπω δε εληλυθει ο ιησους εις την κωμην αλλ ην εν τω τοπω οπου υπηντησεν αυτω η μαρθα
John 11:30 Now Jesus was not yet come into the town, but was in that place where Martha met him.
John 11:31 οι ουν ιουδαιοι οι οντες μετ αυτης εν τη οικια και παραμυθουμενοι αυτην ιδοντες την μαριαν οτι ταχεως ανεστη και εξηλθεν ηκολουθησαν αυτη λεγοντες οτι υπαγει εις το μνημειον ινα κλαυση εκει
John 11:31 The Jews then which were with her in the house, and comforted her, when they saw Mary, that she rose up hastily and went out, followed her, saying, She goeth unto the grave to weep there.
John 11:32 η ουν μαρια ως ηλθεν οπου ην ο ιησους ιδουσα αυτον επεσεν εις τους ποδας αυτου λεγουσα αυτω κυριε ει ης ωδε ουκ αν απεθανεν μου ο αδελφος
John 11:32 Then when Mary was come where Jesus was, and saw him, she fell down at his feet, saying unto him, Lord, if thou hadst been here, my brother had not died.
John 11:33 ιησους ουν ως ειδεν αυτην κλαιουσαν και τους συνελθοντας αυτη ιουδαιους κλαιοντας ενεβριμησατο τω πνευματι και εταραξεν εαυτον
John 11:33 When Jesus therefore saw her weeping, and the Jews also weeping which came with her, he groaned in the spirit, and was troubled.
John 11:34 και ειπεν που τεθεικατε αυτον λεγουσιν αυτω κυριε ερχου και ιδε
John 11:34 And said, Where have ye laid him? They said unto him, Lord, come and see.
John 11:35 εδακρυσεν ο ιησους
John 11:35 Jesus wept.
John 11:36 ελεγον ουν οι ιουδαιοι ιδε πως εφιλει αυτον
John 11:36 Then said the Jews, Behold how he loved him!
John 11:37 τινες δε εξ αυτων ειπον ουκ ηδυνατο ουτος ο ανοιξας τους οφθαλμους του τυφλου ποιησαι ινα και ουτος μη αποθανη
John 11:37 And some of them said, Could not this man, which opened the eyes of the blind, have caused that even this man should not have died?
John 11:38 ιησους ουν παλιν εμβριμωμενος εν εαυτω ερχεται εις το μνημειον ην δε σπηλαιον και λιθος επεκειτο επ αυτω
John 11:38 Jesus therefore again groaning in himself cometh to the grave.  It was a cave, and a stone lay upon it.
John 11:39 λεγει ο ιησους αρατε τον λιθον λεγει αυτω η αδελφη του τεθνηκοτος μαρθα κυριε ηδη οζει τεταρταιος γαρ εστιν
John 11:39 Jesus said, Take ye away the stone. Martha, the sister of him that was dead, saith unto him, Lord, by this time he stinketh: for he hath been dead four days.
John 11:40 λεγει αυτη ο ιησους ουκ ειπον σοι οτι εαν πιστευσης οψει την δοξαν του θεου
John 11:40 Jesus saith unto her, Said I not unto thee, that, if thou wouldest believe, thou shouldest see the glory of God?
John 11:41 ηραν ουν τον λιθον ου ην ο τεθνηκως κειμενος ο δε ιησους ηρεν τους οφθαλμους ανω και ειπεν πατερ ευχαριστω σοι οτι ηκουσας μου
John 11:41 Then they took away the stone from the place where the dead was laid. And Jesus lifted up his eyes, and said, Father, I thank thee that thou hast heard me.
John 11:42 εγω δε ηδειν οτι παντοτε μου ακουεις αλλα δια τον οχλον τον περιεστωτα ειπον ινα πιστευσωσιν οτι συ με απεστειλας
John 11:42 And I knew that thou hearest me always: but because of the people which stand by I said it, that they may believe that thou hast sent me.
John 11:43 και ταυτα ειπων φωνη μεγαλη εκραυγασεν λαζαρε δευρο εξω
John 11:43 And when he thus had spoken, he cried with a loud voice, Lazarus, come forth.
John 11:44 και εξηλθεν ο τεθνηκως δεδεμενος τους ποδας και τας χειρας κειριαις και η οψις αυτου σουδαριω περιεδεδετο λεγει αυτοις ο ιησους λυσατε αυτον και αφετε υπαγειν
John 11:44 And he that was dead came forth, bound hand and foot with graveclothes: and his face was bound about with a napkin.  Jesus saith unto them, Loose him, and let him go.
John 11:45 πολλοι ουν εκ των ιουδαιων οι ελθοντες προς την μαριαν και θεασαμενοι α εποιησεν ο ιησους επιστευσαν εις αυτον
John 11:45 Then many of the Jews which came to Mary, and had seen the things which Jesus did, believed on him.
John 11:46 τινες δε εξ αυτων απηλθον προς τους φαρισαιους και ειπον αυτοις α εποιησεν ο ιησους
John 11:46 But some of them went their ways to the Pharisees, and told them what things Jesus had done.
John 11:47 συνηγαγον ουν οι αρχιερεις και οι φαρισαιοι συνεδριον και ελεγον τι ποιουμεν οτι ουτος ο ανθρωπος πολλα σημεια ποιει
John 11:47 Then gathered the chief priests and the Pharisees a council, and said, What do we? for this man doeth many miracles.
John 11:48 εαν αφωμεν αυτον ουτως παντες πιστευσουσιν εις αυτον και ελευσονται οι ρωμαιοι και αρουσιν ημων και τον τοπον και το εθνος
John 11:48 If we let him thus alone, all men will believe on him: and the Romans shall come and take away both our place and nation.
John 11:49 εις δε τις εξ αυτων καιαφας αρχιερευς ων του ενιαυτου εκεινου ειπεν αυτοις υμεις ουκ οιδατε ουδεν
John 11:49 And one of them, named Caiaphas, being the high priest that same year, said unto them, Ye know nothing at all,
John 11:50 ουδε διαλογιζεσθε οτι συμφερει ημιν ινα εις ανθρωπος αποθανη υπερ του λαου και μη ολον το εθνος αποληται
John 11:50 Nor consider that it is expedient for us, that one man should die for the people, and that the whole nation perish not.
John 11:51 τουτο δε αφ εαυτου ουκ ειπεν αλλα αρχιερευς ων του ενιαυτου εκεινου προεφητευσεν οτι εμελλεν ο ιησους αποθνησκειν υπερ του εθνους
John 11:51 And this spake he not of himself: but being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus should die for that nation;
John 11:52 και ουχ υπερ του εθνους μονον αλλ ινα και τα τεκνα του θεου τα διεσκορπισμενα συναγαγη εις εν
John 11:52 And not for that nation only, but that also he should gather together in one the children of God that were scattered abroad.
John 11:53 απ εκεινης ουν της ημερας συνεβουλευσαντο ινα αποκτεινωσιν αυτον
John 11:53 Then from that day forth they took counsel together for to put him to death.
John 11:54 ιησους ουν ουκ ετι παρρησια περιεπατει εν τοις ιουδαιοις αλλα απηλθεν εκειθεν εις την χωραν εγγυς της ερημου εις εφραιμ λεγομενην πολιν κακει διετριβεν μετα των μαθητων αυτου
John 11:54 Jesus therefore walked no more openly among the Jews; but went thence unto a country near to the wilderness, into a city called Ephraim, and there continued with his disciples.
John 11:55 ην δε εγγυς το πασχα των ιουδαιων και ανεβησαν πολλοι εις ιεροσολυμα εκ της χωρας προ του πασχα ινα αγνισωσιν εαυτους
John 11:55 And the Jews' passover was nigh at hand: and many went out of the country up to Jerusalem before the passover, to purify themselves.
John 11:56 εζητουν ουν τον ιησουν και ελεγον μετ αλληλων εν τω ιερω εστηκοτες τι δοκει υμιν οτι ου μη ελθη εις την εορτην
John 11:56 Then sought they for Jesus, and spake among themselves, as they stood in the temple, What think ye, that he will not come to the feast?
John 11:57 δεδωκεισαν δε και οι αρχιερεις και οι φαρισαιοι εντολην ινα εαν τις γνω που εστιν μηνυση οπως πιασωσιν αυτον
John 11:57 Now both the chief priests and the Pharisees had given a commandment, that, if any man knew where he were, he should shew it, that they might take him.
John 12:1 ο ουν ιησους προ εξ ημερων του πασχα ηλθεν εις βηθανιαν οπου ην λαζαρος ο τεθνηκως ον ηγειρεν εκ νεκρων
John 12:1 Then Jesus six days before the passover came to Bethany, where Lazarus was, which had been dead, whom he raised from the dead.
John 12:2 εποιησαν ουν αυτω δειπνον εκει και η μαρθα διηκονει ο δε λαζαρος εις ην των συνανακειμενων αυτω
John 12:2 There they made him a supper; and Martha served: but Lazarus was one of them that sat at the table with him.
John 12:3 η ουν μαρια λαβουσα λιτραν μυρου ναρδου πιστικης πολυτιμου ηλειψεν τους ποδας του ιησου και εξεμαξεν ταις θριξιν αυτης τους ποδας αυτου η δε οικια επληρωθη εκ της οσμης του μυρου
John 12:3 Then took Mary a pound of ointment of spikenard, very costly, and anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped his feet with her hair: and the house was filled with the odour of the ointment.
John 12:4 λεγει ουν εις εκ των μαθητων αυτου ιουδας σιμωνος ισκαριωτης ο μελλων αυτον παραδιδοναι
John 12:4 Then saith one of his disciples, Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, which should betray him,
John 12:5 διατι τουτο το μυρον ουκ επραθη τριακοσιων δηναριων και εδοθη πτωχοις
John 12:5 Why was not this ointment sold for three hundred pence, and given to the poor?
John 12:6 ειπεν δε τουτο ουχ οτι περι των πτωχων εμελεν αυτω αλλ οτι κλεπτης ην και το γλωσσοκομον ειχεν και τα βαλλομενα εβασταζεν
John 12:6 This he said, not that he cared for the poor; but because he was a thief, and had the bag, and bare what was put therein.
John 12:7 ειπεν ουν ο ιησους αφες αυτην εις την ημεραν του ενταφιασμου μου τετηρηκεν αυτο
John 12:7 Then said Jesus, Let her alone: against the day of my burying hath she kept this.
John 12:8 τους πτωχους γαρ παντοτε εχετε μεθ εαυτων εμε δε ου παντοτε εχετε
John 12:8 For the poor always ye have with you; but me ye have not always.
John 12:9 εγνω ουν οχλος πολυς εκ των ιουδαιων οτι εκει εστιν και ηλθον ου δια τον ιησουν μονον αλλ ινα και τον λαζαρον ιδωσιν ον ηγειρεν εκ νεκρων
John 12:9 Much people of the Jews therefore knew that he was there: and they came not for Jesus' sake only, but that they might see Lazarus also, whom he had raised from the dead.
John 12:10 εβουλευσαντο δε οι αρχιερεις ινα και τον λαζαρον αποκτεινωσιν
John 12:10 But the chief priests consulted that they might put Lazarus also to death;
John 12:11 οτι πολλοι δι αυτον υπηγον των ιουδαιων και επιστευον εις τον ιησουν
John 12:11 Because that by reason of him many of the Jews went away, and believed on Jesus.
John 12:12 τη επαυριον οχλος πολυς ο ελθων εις την εορτην ακουσαντες οτι ερχεται ο ιησους εις ιεροσολυμα
John 12:12 On the next day much people that were come to the feast, when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem,
John 12:13 ελαβον τα βαια των φοινικων και εξηλθον εις υπαντησιν αυτω και εκραζον ωσαννα ευλογημενος ο ερχομενος εν ονοματι κυριου ο βασιλευς του ισραηλ
John 12:13 Took branches of palm trees, and went forth to meet him, and cried, Hosanna: Blessed is the King of Israel that cometh in the name of the Lord.
John 12:14 ευρων δε ο ιησους οναριον εκαθισεν επ αυτο καθως εστιν γεγραμμενον
John 12:14 And Jesus, when he had found a young ass, sat thereon; as it is written,
John 12:15 μη φοβου θυγατερ σιων ιδου ο βασιλευς σου ερχεται καθημενος επι πωλον ονου
John 12:15 Fear not, daughter of Sion: behold, thy King cometh, sitting on an ass's colt.
John 12:16 ταυτα δε ουκ εγνωσαν οι μαθηται αυτου το πρωτον αλλ οτε εδοξασθη ο ιησους τοτε εμνησθησαν οτι ταυτα ην επ αυτω γεγραμμενα και ταυτα εποιησαν αυτω
John 12:16 These things understood not his disciples at the first: but when Jesus was glorified, then remembered they that these things were written of him, and that they had done these things unto him.
John 12:17 εμαρτυρει ουν ο οχλος ο ων μετ αυτου οτε τον λαζαρον εφωνησεν εκ του μνημειου και ηγειρεν αυτον εκ νεκρων
John 12:17 The people therefore that was with him when he called Lazarus out of his grave, and raised him from the dead, bare record.
John 12:18 δια τουτο και υπηντησεν αυτω ο οχλος οτι ηκουσεν τουτο αυτον πεποιηκεναι το σημειον
John 12:18 For this cause the people also met him, for that they heard that he had done this miracle.
John 12:19 οι ουν φαρισαιοι ειπον προς εαυτους θεωρειτε οτι ουκ ωφελειτε ουδεν ιδε ο κοσμος οπισω αυτου απηλθεν
John 12:19 The Pharisees therefore said among themselves, Perceive ye how ye prevail nothing? behold, the world is gone after him.
John 12:20 ησαν δε τινες ελληνες εκ των αναβαινοντων ινα προσκυνησωσιν εν τη εορτη
John 12:20 And there were certain Greeks among them that came up to worship at the feast:
John 12:21 ουτοι ουν προσηλθον φιλιππω τω απο βηθσαιδα της γαλιλαιας και ηρωτων αυτον λεγοντες κυριε θελομεν τον ιησουν ιδειν
John 12:21 The same came therefore to Philip, which was of Bethsaida of Galilee, and desired him, saying, Sir, we would see Jesus.
John 12:22 ερχεται φιλιππος και λεγει τω ανδρεα και παλιν ανδρεας και φιλιππος λεγουσιν τω ιησου
John 12:22 Philip cometh and telleth Andrew: and again Andrew and Philip tell Jesus.
John 12:23 ο δε ιησους απεκρινατο αυτοις λεγων εληλυθεν η ωρα ινα δοξασθη ο υιος του ανθρωπου
John 12:23 And Jesus answered them, saying, The hour is come, that the Son of man should be glorified.
John 12:24 αμην αμην λεγω υμιν εαν μη ο κοκκος του σιτου πεσων εις την γην αποθανη αυτος μονος μενει εαν δε αποθανη πολυν καρπον φερει
John 12:24 Verily, verily, I say unto you, Except a corn of wheat fall into the ground and die, it abideth alone: but if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit.
John 12:25 ο φιλων την ψυχην αυτου απολεσει αυτην και ο μισων την ψυχην αυτου εν τω κοσμω τουτω εις ζωην αιωνιον φυλαξει αυτην
John 12:25 He that loveth his life shall lose it; and he that hateth his life in this world shall keep it unto life eternal.
John 12:26 εαν εμοι διακονη τις εμοι ακολουθειτω και οπου ειμι εγω εκει και ο διακονος ο εμος εσται και εαν τις εμοι διακονη τιμησει αυτον ο πατηρ
John 12:26 If any man serve me, let him follow me; and where I am, there shall also my servant be: if any man serve me, him will my Father honour.
John 12:27 νυν η ψυχη μου τεταρακται και τι ειπω πατερ σωσον με εκ της ωρας ταυτης αλλα δια τουτο ηλθον εις την ωραν ταυτην
John 12:27 Now is my soul troubled; and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour: but for this cause came I unto this hour.
John 12:28 πατερ δοξασον σου το ονομα ηλθεν ουν φωνη εκ του ουρανου και εδοξασα και παλιν δοξασω
John 12:28 Father, glorify thy name. Then came there a voice from heaven, saying, I have both glorified it, and will glorify it again.
John 12:29 ο ουν οχλος ο εστως και ακουσας ελεγεν βροντην γεγονεναι αλλοι ελεγον αγγελος αυτω λελαληκεν
John 12:29 The people therefore, that stood by, and heard it, said that it thundered: others said, An angel spake to him.
John 12:30 απεκριθη ο ιησους και ειπεν ου δι εμε αυτη η φωνη γεγονεν αλλα δι υμας
John 12:30 Jesus answered and said, This voice came not because of me, but for your sakes.
John 12:31 νυν κρισις εστιν του κοσμου τουτου νυν ο αρχων του κοσμου τουτου εκβληθησεται εξω
John 12:31 Now is the judgment of this world: now shall the prince of this world be cast out.
John 12:32 καγω εαν υψωθω εκ της γης παντας ελκυσω προς εμαυτον
John 12:32 And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men unto me.
John 12:33 τουτο δε ελεγεν σημαινων ποιω θανατω ημελλεν αποθνησκειν
John 12:33 This he said, signifying what death he should die.
John 12:34 απεκριθη αυτω ο οχλος ημεις ηκουσαμεν εκ του νομου οτι ο χριστος μενει εις τον αιωνα και πως συ λεγεις οτι δει υψωθηναι τον υιον του ανθρωπου τις εστιν ουτος ο υιος του ανθρωπου
John 12:34 The people answered him, We have heard out of the law that Christ abideth for ever: and how sayest thou, The Son of man must be lifted up? who is this Son of man?
John 12:35 ειπεν ουν αυτοις ο ιησους ετι μικρον χρονον το φως μεθ υμων εστιν περιπατειτε εως το φως εχετε ινα μη σκοτια υμας καταλαβη και ο περιπατων εν τη σκοτια ουκ οιδεν που υπαγει
John 12:35 Then Jesus said unto them, Yet a little while is the light with you. Walk while ye have the light, lest darkness come upon you: for he that walketh in darkness knoweth not whither he goeth.
John 12:36 εως το φως εχετε πιστευετε εις το φως ινα υιοι φωτος γενησθε ταυτα ελαλησεν ο ιησους και απελθων εκρυβη απ αυτων
John 12:36 While ye have light, believe in the light, that ye may be the children of light. These things spake Jesus, and departed, and did hide himself from them.
John 12:37 τοσαυτα δε αυτου σημεια πεποιηκοτος εμπροσθεν αυτων ουκ επιστευον εις αυτον
John 12:37 But though he had done so many miracles before them, yet they believed not on him:
John 12:38 ινα ο λογος ησαιου του προφητου πληρωθη ον ειπεν κυριε τις επιστευσεν τη ακοη ημων και ο βραχιων κυριου τινι απεκαλυφθη
John 12:38 That the saying of Esaias the prophet might be fulfilled, which he spake, Lord, who hath believed our report? and to whom hath the arm of the Lord been revealed?
John 12:39 δια τουτο ουκ ηδυναντο πιστευειν οτι παλιν ειπεν ησαιας
John 12:39 Therefore they could not believe, because that Esaias said again,
John 12:40 τετυφλωκεν αυτων τους οφθαλμους και πεπωρωκεν αυτων την καρδιαν ινα μη ιδωσιν τοις οφθαλμοις και νοησωσιν τη καρδια και επιστραφωσιν και ιασωμαι αυτους
John 12:40 He hath blinded their eyes, and hardened their heart; that they should not see with their eyes, nor understand with their heart, and be converted, and I should heal them.
John 12:41 ταυτα ειπεν ησαιας οτε ειδεν την δοξαν αυτου και ελαλησεν περι αυτου
John 12:41 These things said Esaias, when he saw his glory, and spake of him.
John 12:42 ομως μεντοι και εκ των αρχοντων πολλοι επιστευσαν εις αυτον αλλα δια τους φαρισαιους ουχ ωμολογουν ινα μη αποσυναγωγοι γενωνται
John 12:42 Nevertheless among the chief rulers also many believed on him; but because of the Pharisees they did not confess him, lest they should be put out of the synagogue:
John 12:43 ηγαπησαν γαρ την δοξαν των ανθρωπων μαλλον ηπερ την δοξαν του θεου
John 12:43 For they loved the praise of men more than the praise of God.
John 12:44 ιησους δε εκραξεν και ειπεν ο πιστευων εις εμε ου πιστευει εις εμε αλλ εις τον πεμψαντα με
John 12:44 Jesus cried and said, He that believeth on me, believeth not on me, but on him that sent me.
John 12:45 και ο θεωρων εμε θεωρει τον πεμψαντα με
John 12:45 And he that seeth me seeth him that sent me.
John 12:46 εγω φως εις τον κοσμον εληλυθα ινα πας ο πιστευων εις εμε εν τη σκοτια μη μεινη
John 12:46 I am come a light into the world, that whosoever believeth on me should not abide in darkness.
John 12:47 και εαν τις μου ακουση των ρηματων και μη πιστευση εγω ου κρινω αυτον ου γαρ ηλθον ινα κρινω τον κοσμον αλλ ινα σωσω τον κοσμον
John 12:47 And if any man hear my words, and believe not, I judge him not: for I came not to judge the world, but to save the world.
John 12:48 ο αθετων εμε και μη λαμβανων τα ρηματα μου εχει τον κρινοντα αυτον ο λογος ον ελαλησα εκεινος κρινει αυτον εν τη εσχατη ημερα
John 12:48 He that rejecteth me, and receiveth not my words, hath one that judgeth him: the word that I have spoken, the same shall judge him in the last day.
John 12:49 οτι εγω εξ εμαυτου ουκ ελαλησα αλλ ο πεμψας με πατηρ αυτος μοι εντολην εδωκεν τι ειπω και τι λαλησω
John 12:49 For I have not spoken of myself; but the Father which sent me, he gave me a commandment, what I should say, and what I should speak.
John 12:50 και οιδα οτι η εντολη αυτου ζωη αιωνιος εστιν α ουν λαλω εγω καθως ειρηκεν μοι ο πατηρ ουτως λαλω
John 12:50 And I know that his commandment is life everlasting: whatsoever I speak therefore, even as the Father said unto me, so I speak.
John 13:1 προ δε της εορτης του πασχα ειδως ο ιησους οτι εληλυθεν αυτου η ωρα ινα μεταβη εκ του κοσμου τουτου προς τον πατερα αγαπησας τους ιδιους τους εν τω κοσμω εις τελος ηγαπησεν αυτους
John 13:1 Now before the feast of the passover, when Jesus knew that his hour was come that he should depart out of this world unto the Father, having loved his own which were in the world, he loved them unto the end.
John 13:2 και δειπνου γενομενου του διαβολου ηδη βεβληκοτος εις την καρδιαν ιουδα σιμωνος ισκαριωτου ινα αυτον παραδω
John 13:2 And supper being ended, the devil having now put into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, to betray him;
John 13:3 ειδως ο ιησους οτι παντα δεδωκεν αυτω ο πατηρ εις τας χειρας και οτι απο θεου εξηλθεν και προς τον θεον υπαγει
John 13:3 Jesus knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands, and that he was come from God, and went to God;
John 13:4 εγειρεται εκ του δειπνου και τιθησιν τα ιματια και λαβων λεντιον διεζωσεν εαυτον
John 13:4 He riseth from supper, and laid aside his garments; and took a towel, and girded himself.
John 13:5 ειτα βαλλει υδωρ εις τον νιπτηρα και ηρξατο νιπτειν τους ποδας των μαθητων και εκμασσειν τω λεντιω ω ην διεζωσμενος
John 13:5 After that he poureth water into a bason, and began to wash the disciples' feet, and to wipe them with the towel wherewith he was girded.
John 13:6 ερχεται ουν προς σιμωνα πετρον και λεγει αυτω εκεινος κυριε συ μου νιπτεις τους ποδας
John 13:6 Then cometh he to Simon Peter: and Peter saith unto him, Lord, dost thou wash my feet?
John 13:7 απεκριθη ιησους και ειπεν αυτω ο εγω ποιω συ ουκ οιδας αρτι γνωση δε μετα ταυτα
John 13:7 Jesus answered and said unto him, What I do thou knowest not now; but thou shalt know hereafter.
John 13:8 λεγει αυτω πετρος ου μη νιψης τους ποδας μου εις τον αιωνα απεκριθη αυτω ο ιησους εαν μη νιψω σε ουκ εχεις μερος μετ εμου
John 13:8 Peter saith unto him, Thou shalt never wash my feet. Jesus answered him, If I wash thee not, thou hast no part with me.
John 13:9 λεγει αυτω σιμων πετρος κυριε μη τους ποδας μου μονον αλλα και τας χειρας και την κεφαλην
John 13:9 Simon Peter saith unto him, Lord, not my feet only, but also my hands and my head.
John 13:10 λεγει αυτω ο ιησους ο λελουμενος ου χρειαν εχει η τους ποδας νιψασθαι αλλ εστιν καθαρος ολος και υμεις καθαροι εστε αλλ ουχι παντες
John 13:10 Jesus saith to him, He that is washed needeth not save to wash his feet, but is clean every whit: and ye are clean, but not all.
John 13:11 ηδει γαρ τον παραδιδοντα αυτον δια τουτο ειπεν ουχι παντες καθαροι εστε
John 13:11 For he knew who should betray him; therefore said he, Ye are not all clean.
John 13:12 οτε ουν ενιψεν τους ποδας αυτων και ελαβεν τα ιματια αυτου αναπεσων παλιν ειπεν αυτοις γινωσκετε τι πεποιηκα υμιν
John 13:12 So after he had washed their feet, and had taken his garments, and was set down again, he said unto them, Know ye what I have done to you?
John 13:13 υμεις φωνειτε με ο διδασκαλος και ο κυριος και καλως λεγετε ειμι γαρ
John 13:13 Ye call me Master and Lord: and ye say well; for so I am.
John 13:14 ει ουν εγω ενιψα υμων τους ποδας ο κυριος και ο διδασκαλος και υμεις οφειλετε αλληλων νιπτειν τους ποδας
John 13:14 If I then, your Lord and Master, have washed your feet; ye also ought to wash one another's feet.
John 13:15 υποδειγμα γαρ εδωκα υμιν ινα καθως εγω εποιησα υμιν και υμεις ποιητε
John 13:15 For I have given you an example, that ye should do as I have done to you.
John 13:16 αμην αμην λεγω υμιν ουκ εστιν δουλος μειζων του κυριου αυτου ουδε αποστολος μειζων του πεμψαντος αυτον
John 13:16 Verily, verily, I say unto you, The servant is not greater than his lord; neither he that is sent greater than he that sent him.
John 13:17 ει ταυτα οιδατε μακαριοι εστε εαν ποιητε αυτα
John 13:17 If ye know these things, happy are ye if ye do them.
John 13:18 ου περι παντων υμων λεγω εγω οιδα ους εξελεξαμην αλλ ινα η γραφη πληρωθη ο τρωγων μετ εμου τον αρτον επηρεν επ εμε την πτερναν αυτου
John 13:18 I speak not of you all: I know whom I have chosen: but that the scripture may be fulfilled, He that eateth bread with me hath lifted up his heel against me.
John 13:19 απ αρτι λεγω υμιν προ του γενεσθαι ινα οταν γενηται πιστευσητε οτι εγω ειμι
John 13:19 Now I tell you before it come, that, when it is come to pass, ye may believe that I am he.
John 13:20 αμην αμην λεγω υμιν ο λαμβανων εαν τινα πεμψω εμε λαμβανει ο δε εμε λαμβανων λαμβανει τον πεμψαντα με
John 13:20 Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that receiveth whomsoever I send receiveth me; and he that receiveth me receiveth him that sent me.
John 13:21 ταυτα ειπων ο ιησους εταραχθη τω πνευματι και εμαρτυρησεν και ειπεν αμην αμην λεγω υμιν οτι εις εξ υμων παραδωσει με
John 13:21 When Jesus had thus said, he was troubled in spirit, and testified, and said, Verily, verily, I say unto you, that one of you shall betray me.
John 13:22 εβλεπον ουν εις αλληλους οι μαθηται απορουμενοι περι τινος λεγει
John 13:22 Then the disciples looked one on another, doubting of whom he spake.
John 13:23 ην δε ανακειμενος εις των μαθητων αυτου εν τω κολπω του ιησου ον ηγαπα ο ιησους
John 13:23 Now there was leaning on Jesus' bosom one of his disciples, whom Jesus loved.
John 13:24 νευει ουν τουτω σιμων πετρος πυθεσθαι τις αν ειη περι ου λεγει
John 13:24 Simon Peter therefore beckoned to him, that he should ask who it should be of whom he spake.
John 13:25 επιπεσων δε εκεινος επι το στηθος του ιησου λεγει αυτω κυριε τις εστιν
John 13:25 He then lying on Jesus' breast saith unto him, Lord, who is it?
John 13:26 αποκρινεται ο ιησους εκεινος εστιν ω εγω βαψας το ψωμιον επιδωσω και εμβαψας το ψωμιον διδωσιν ιουδα σιμωνος ισκαριωτη
John 13:26 Jesus answered, He it is, to whom I shall give a sop, when I have dipped it. And when he had dipped the sop, he gave it to Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon.
John 13:27 και μετα το ψωμιον τοτε εισηλθεν εις εκεινον ο σατανας λεγει ουν αυτω ο ιησους ο ποιεις ποιησον ταχιον
John 13:27 And after the sop Satan entered into him. Then said Jesus unto him, That thou doest, do quickly.
John 13:28 τουτο δε ουδεις εγνω των ανακειμενων προς τι ειπεν αυτω
John 13:28 Now no man at the table knew for what intent he spake this unto him.
John 13:29 τινες γαρ εδοκουν επει το γλωσσοκομον ειχεν ο ιουδας οτι λεγει αυτω ο ιησους αγορασον ων χρειαν εχομεν εις την εορτην η τοις πτωχοις ινα τι δω
John 13:29 For some of them thought, because Judas had the bag, that Jesus had said unto him, Buy those things that we have need of against the feast; or, that he should give something to the poor.
John 13:30 λαβων ουν το ψωμιον εκεινος ευθεως εξηλθεν ην δε νυξ
John 13:30 He then having received the sop went immediately out: and it was night.
John 13:31 οτε εξηλθεν λεγει ο ιησους νυν εδοξασθη ο υιος του ανθρωπου και ο θεος εδοξασθη εν αυτω
John 13:31 Therefore, when he was gone out, Jesus said, Now is the Son of man glorified, and God is glorified in him.
John 13:32 ει ο θεος εδοξασθη εν αυτω και ο θεος δοξασει αυτον εν εαυτω και ευθυς δοξασει αυτον
John 13:32 If God be glorified in him, God shall also glorify him in himself, and shall straightway glorify him.
John 13:33 τεκνια ετι μικρον μεθ υμων ειμι ζητησετε με και καθως ειπον τοις ιουδαιοις οτι οπου υπαγω εγω υμεις ου δυνασθε ελθειν και υμιν λεγω αρτι
John 13:33 Little children, yet a little while I am with you. Ye shall seek me: and as I said unto the Jews, Whither I go, ye cannot come; so now I say to you.
John 13:34 εντολην καινην διδωμι υμιν ινα αγαπατε αλληλους καθως ηγαπησα υμας ινα και υμεις αγαπατε αλληλους
John 13:34 A new commandment I give unto you, That ye love one another; as I have loved you, that ye also love one another.
John 13:35 εν τουτω γνωσονται παντες οτι εμοι μαθηται εστε εαν αγαπην εχητε εν αλληλοις
John 13:35 By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one to another.
John 13:36 λεγει αυτω σιμων πετρος κυριε που υπαγεις απεκριθη αυτω ο ιησους οπου υπαγω ου δυνασαι μοι νυν ακολουθησαι υστερον δε ακολουθησεις μοι
John 13:36 Simon Peter said unto him, Lord, whither goest thou? Jesus answered him, Whither I go, thou canst not follow me now; but thou shalt follow me afterwards.
John 13:37 λεγει αυτω ο πετρος κυριε διατι ου δυναμαι σοι ακολουθησαι αρτι την ψυχην μου υπερ σου θησω
John 13:37 Peter said unto him, Lord, why cannot I follow thee now? I will lay down my life for thy sake.
John 13:38 απεκριθη αυτω ο ιησους την ψυχην σου υπερ εμου θησεις αμην αμην λεγω σοι ου μη αλεκτωρ φωνησει εως ου απαρνηση με τρις
John 13:38 Jesus answered him, Wilt thou lay down thy life for my sake?  Verily, verily, I say unto thee, The cock shall not crow, till thou hast denied me thrice.
John 14:1 μη ταρασσεσθω υμων η καρδια πιστευετε εις τον θεον και εις εμε πιστευετε
John 14:1 Let not your heart be troubled: ye believe in God, believe also in me.
John 14:2 εν τη οικια του πατρος μου μοναι πολλαι εισιν ει δε μη ειπον αν υμιν πορευομαι ετοιμασαι τοπον υμιν
John 14:2 In my Father's house are many mansions: if it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you.
John 14:3 και εαν πορευθω και ετοιμασω υμιν τοπον παλιν ερχομαι και παραληψομαι υμας προς εμαυτον ινα οπου ειμι εγω και υμεις ητε
John 14:3 And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and receive you unto myself; that where I am, there ye may be also.
John 14:4 και οπου εγω υπαγω οιδατε και την οδον οιδατε
John 14:4 And whither I go ye know, and the way ye know.
John 14:5 λεγει αυτω θωμας κυριε ουκ οιδαμεν που υπαγεις και πως δυναμεθα την οδον ειδεναι
John 14:5 Thomas saith unto him, Lord, we know not whither thou goest; and how can we know the way?
John 14:6 λεγει αυτω ο ιησους εγω ειμι η οδος και η αληθεια και η ζωη ουδεις ερχεται προς τον πατερα ει μη δι εμου
John 14:6 Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life: no man cometh unto the Father, but by me.
John 14:7 ει εγνωκειτε με και τον πατερα μου εγνωκειτε αν και απ αρτι γινωσκετε αυτον και εωρακατε αυτον
John 14:7 If ye had known me, ye should have known my Father also: and from henceforth ye know him, and have seen him.
John 14:8 λεγει αυτω φιλιππος κυριε δειξον ημιν τον πατερα και αρκει ημιν
John 14:8 Philip saith unto him, Lord, shew us the Father, and it sufficeth us.
John 14:9 λεγει αυτω ο ιησους τοσουτον χρονον μεθ υμων ειμι και ουκ εγνωκας με φιλιππε ο εωρακως εμε εωρακεν τον πατερα και πως συ λεγεις δειξον ημιν τον πατερα
John 14:9 Jesus saith unto him, Have I been so long time with you, and yet hast thou not known me, Philip? he that hath seen me hath seen the Father; and how sayest thou then, Shew us the Father?
John 14:10 ου πιστευεις οτι εγω εν τω πατρι και ο πατηρ εν εμοι εστιν τα ρηματα α εγω λαλω υμιν απ εμαυτου ου λαλω ο δε πατηρ ο εν εμοι μενων αυτος ποιει τα εργα
John 14:10 Believest thou not that I am in the Father, and the Father in me? the words that I speak unto you I speak not of myself: but the Father that dwelleth in me, he doeth the works.
John 14:11 πιστευετε μοι οτι εγω εν τω πατρι και ο πατηρ εν εμοι ει δε μη δια τα εργα αυτα πιστευετε μοι
John 14:11 Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father in me: or else believe me for the very works' sake.
John 14:12 αμην αμην λεγω υμιν ο πιστευων εις εμε τα εργα α εγω ποιω κακεινος ποιησει και μειζονα τουτων ποιησει οτι εγω προς τον πατερα μου πορευομαι
John 14:12 Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that believeth on me, the works that I do shall he do also; and greater works than these shall he do; because I go unto my Father.
John 14:13 και ο τι αν αιτησητε εν τω ονοματι μου τουτο ποιησω ινα δοξασθη ο πατηρ εν τω υιω
John 14:13 And whatsoever ye shall ask in my name, that will I do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son.
John 14:14 εαν τι αιτησητε εν τω ονοματι μου εγω ποιησω
John 14:14 If ye shall ask any thing in my name, I will do it.
John 14:15 εαν αγαπατε με τας εντολας τας εμας τηρησατε
John 14:15 If ye love me, keep my commandments.
John 14:16 και εγω ερωτησω τον πατερα και αλλον παρακλητον δωσει υμιν ινα μενη μεθ υμων εις τον αιωνα
John 14:16 And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another Comforter, that he may abide with you for ever;
John 14:17 το πνευμα της αληθειας ο ο κοσμος ου δυναται λαβειν οτι ου θεωρει αυτο ουδε γινωσκει αυτο υμεις δε γινωσκετε αυτο οτι παρ υμιν μενει και εν υμιν εσται
John 14:17 Even the Spirit of truth; whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him: but ye know him; for he dwelleth with you, and shall be in you.
John 14:18 ουκ αφησω υμας ορφανους ερχομαι προς υμας
John 14:18 I will not leave you comfortless: I will come to you.
John 14:19 ετι μικρον και ο κοσμος με ουκ ετι θεωρει υμεις δε θεωρειτε με οτι εγω ζω και υμεις ζησεσθε
John 14:19 Yet a little while, and the world seeth me no more; but ye see me: because I live, ye shall live also.
John 14:20 εν εκεινη τη ημερα γνωσεσθε υμεις οτι εγω εν τω πατρι μου και υμεις εν εμοι καγω εν υμιν
John 14:20 At that day ye shall know that I am in my Father, and ye in me, and I in you.
John 14:21 ο εχων τας εντολας μου και τηρων αυτας εκεινος εστιν ο αγαπων με ο δε αγαπων με αγαπηθησεται υπο του πατρος μου και εγω αγαπησω αυτον και εμφανισω αυτω εμαυτον
John 14:21 He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me: and he that loveth me shall be loved of my Father, and I will love him, and will manifest myself to him.
John 14:22 λεγει αυτω ιουδας ουχ ο ισκαριωτης κυριε τι γεγονεν οτι ημιν μελλεις εμφανιζειν σεαυτον και ουχι τω κοσμω
John 14:22 Judas saith unto him, not Iscariot, Lord, how is it that thou wilt manifest thyself unto us, and not unto the world?
John 14:23 απεκριθη ο ιησους και ειπεν αυτω εαν τις αγαπα με τον λογον μου τηρησει και ο πατηρ μου αγαπησει αυτον και προς αυτον ελευσομεθα και μονην παρ αυτω ποιησομεν
John 14:23 Jesus answered and said unto him, If a man love me, he will keep my words: and my Father will love him, and we will come unto him, and make our abode with him.
John 14:24 ο μη αγαπων με τους λογους μου ου τηρει και ο λογος ον ακουετε ουκ εστιν εμος αλλα του πεμψαντος με πατρος
John 14:24 He that loveth me not keepeth not my sayings: and the word which ye hear is not mine, but the Father's which sent me.
John 14:25 ταυτα λελαληκα υμιν παρ υμιν μενων
John 14:25 These things have I spoken unto you, being yet present with you.
John 14:26 ο δε παρακλητος το πνευμα το αγιον ο πεμψει ο πατηρ εν τω ονοματι μου εκεινος υμας διδαξει παντα και υπομνησει υμας παντα α ειπον υμιν
John 14:26 But the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things, and bring all things to your remembrance, whatsoever I have said unto you.
John 14:27 ειρηνην αφιημι υμιν ειρηνην την εμην διδωμι υμιν ου καθως ο κοσμος διδωσιν εγω διδωμι υμιν μη ταρασσεσθω υμων η καρδια μηδε δειλιατω
John 14:27 Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid.
John 14:28 ηκουσατε οτι εγω ειπον υμιν υπαγω και ερχομαι προς υμας ει ηγαπατε με εχαρητε αν οτι ειπον πορευομαι προς τον πατερα οτι ο πατηρ μου μειζων μου εστιν
John 14:28 Ye have heard how I said unto you, I go away, and come again unto you. If ye loved me, ye would rejoice, because I said, I go unto the Father: for my Father is greater than I.
John 14:29 και νυν ειρηκα υμιν πριν γενεσθαι ινα οταν γενηται πιστευσητε
John 14:29 And now I have told you before it come to pass, that, when it is come to pass, ye might believe.
John 14:30 ουκ ετι πολλα λαλησω μεθ υμων ερχεται γαρ ο του κοσμου τουτου αρχων και εν εμοι ουκ εχει ουδεν
John 14:30 Hereafter I will not talk much with you: for the prince of this world cometh, and hath nothing in me.
John 14:31 αλλ ινα γνω ο κοσμος οτι αγαπω τον πατερα και καθως ενετειλατο μοι ο πατηρ ουτως ποιω εγειρεσθε αγωμεν εντευθεν
John 14:31 But that the world may know that I love the Father; and as the Father gave me commandment, even so I do. Arise, let us go hence.
John 15:1 εγω ειμι η αμπελος η αληθινη και ο πατηρ μου ο γεωργος εστιν
John 15:1 I am the true vine, and my Father is the husbandman.
John 15:2 παν κλημα εν εμοι μη φερον καρπον αιρει αυτο και παν το καρπον φερον καθαιρει αυτο ινα πλειονα καρπον φερη
John 15:2 Every branch in me that beareth not fruit he taketh away: and every branch that beareth fruit, he purgeth it, that it may bring forth more fruit.
John 15:3 ηδη υμεις καθαροι εστε δια τον λογον ον λελαληκα υμιν
John 15:3 Now ye are clean through the word which I have spoken unto you.
John 15:4 μεινατε εν εμοι καγω εν υμιν καθως το κλημα ου δυναται καρπον φερειν αφ εαυτου εαν μη μεινη εν τη αμπελω ουτως ουδε υμεις εαν μη εν εμοι μεινητε
John 15:4 Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine; no more can ye, except ye abide in me.
John 15:5 εγω ειμι η αμπελος υμεις τα κληματα ο μενων εν εμοι καγω εν αυτω ουτος φερει καρπον πολυν οτι χωρις εμου ου δυνασθε ποιειν ουδεν
John 15:5 I am the vine, ye are the branches: He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit: for without me ye can do nothing.
John 15:6 εαν μη τις μεινη εν εμοι εβληθη εξω ως το κλημα και εξηρανθη και συναγουσιν αυτα και εις πυρ βαλλουσιν και καιεται
John 15:6 If a man abide not in me, he is cast forth as a branch, and is withered; and men gather them, and cast them into the fire, and they are burned.
John 15:7 εαν μεινητε εν εμοι και τα ρηματα μου εν υμιν μεινη ο εαν θελητε αιτησεσθε και γενησεται υμιν
John 15:7 If ye abide in me, and my words abide in you, ye shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto you.
John 15:8 εν τουτω εδοξασθη ο πατηρ μου ινα καρπον πολυν φερητε και γενησεσθε εμοι μαθηται
John 15:8 Herein is my Father glorified, that ye bear much fruit; so shall ye be my disciples.
John 15:9 καθως ηγαπησεν με ο πατηρ καγω ηγαπησα υμας μεινατε εν τη αγαπη τη εμη
John 15:9 As the Father hath loved me, so have I loved you: continue ye in my love.
John 15:10 εαν τας εντολας μου τηρησητε μενειτε εν τη αγαπη μου καθως εγω τας εντολας του πατρος μου τετηρηκα και μενω αυτου εν τη αγαπη
John 15:10 If ye keep my commandments, ye shall abide in my love; even as I have kept my Father's commandments, and abide in his love.
John 15:11 ταυτα λελαληκα υμιν ινα η χαρα η εμη εν υμιν μεινη και η χαρα υμων πληρωθη
John 15:11 These things have I spoken unto you, that my joy might remain in you, and that your joy might be full.
John 15:12 αυτη εστιν η εντολη η εμη ινα αγαπατε αλληλους καθως ηγαπησα υμας
John 15:12 This is my commandment, That ye love one another, as I have loved you.
John 15:13 μειζονα ταυτης αγαπην ουδεις εχει ινα τις την ψυχην αυτου θη υπερ των φιλων αυτου
John 15:13 Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends.
John 15:14 υμεις φιλοι μου εστε εαν ποιητε οσα εγω εντελλομαι υμιν
John 15:14 Ye are my friends, if ye do whatsoever I command you.
John 15:15 ουκετι υμας λεγω δουλους οτι ο δουλος ουκ οιδεν τι ποιει αυτου ο κυριος υμας δε ειρηκα φιλους οτι παντα α ηκουσα παρα του πατρος μου εγνωρισα υμιν
John 15:15 Henceforth I call you not servants; for the servant knoweth not what his lord doeth: but I have called you friends; for all things that I have heard of my Father I have made known unto you.
John 15:16 ουχ υμεις με εξελεξασθε αλλ εγω εξελεξαμην υμας και εθηκα υμας ινα υμεις υπαγητε και καρπον φερητε και ο καρπος υμων μενη ινα ο τι αν αιτησητε τον πατερα εν τω ονοματι μου δω υμιν
John 15:16 Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ordained you, that ye should go and bring forth fruit, and that your fruit should remain: that whatsoever ye shall ask of the Father in my name, he may give it you.
John 15:17 ταυτα εντελλομαι υμιν ινα αγαπατε αλληλους
John 15:17 These things I command you, that ye love one another.
John 15:18 ει ο κοσμος υμας μισει γινωσκετε οτι εμε πρωτον υμων μεμισηκεν
John 15:18 If the world hate you, ye know that it hated me before it hated you.
John 15:19 ει εκ του κοσμου ητε ο κοσμος αν το ιδιον εφιλει οτι δε εκ του κοσμου ουκ εστε αλλ εγω εξελεξαμην υμας εκ του κοσμου δια τουτο μισει υμας ο κοσμος
John 15:19 If ye were of the world, the world would love his own: but because ye are not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hateth you.
John 15:20 μνημονευετε του λογου ου εγω ειπον υμιν ουκ εστιν δουλος μειζων του κυριου αυτου ει εμε εδιωξαν και υμας διωξουσιν ει τον λογον μου ετηρησαν και τον υμετερον τηρησουσιν
John 15:20 Remember the word that I said unto you, The servant is not greater than his lord. If they have persecuted me, they will also persecute you; if they have kept my saying, they will keep yours also.
John 15:21 αλλα ταυτα παντα ποιησουσιν υμιν δια το ονομα μου οτι ουκ οιδασιν τον πεμψαντα με
John 15:21 But all these things will they do unto you for my name's sake, because they know not him that sent me.
John 15:22 ει μη ηλθον και ελαλησα αυτοις αμαρτιαν ουκ ειχον νυν δε προφασιν ουκ εχουσιν περι της αμαρτιας αυτων
John 15:22 If I had not come and spoken unto them, they had not had sin: but now they have no cloak for their sin.
John 15:23 ο εμε μισων και τον πατερα μου μισει
John 15:23 He that hateth me hateth my Father also.
John 15:24 ει τα εργα μη εποιησα εν αυτοις α ουδεις αλλος πεποιηκεν αμαρτιαν ουκ ειχον νυν δε και εωρακασιν και μεμισηκασιν και εμε και τον πατερα μου
John 15:24 If I had not done among them the works which none other man did, they had not had sin: but now have they both seen and hated both me and my Father.
John 15:25 αλλ ινα πληρωθη ο λογος ο γεγραμμενος εν τω νομω αυτων οτι εμισησαν με δωρεαν
John 15:25 But this cometh to pass, that the word might be fulfilled that is written in their law, They hated me without a cause.
John 15:26 οταν δε ελθη ο παρακλητος ον εγω πεμψω υμιν παρα του πατρος το πνευμα της αληθειας ο παρα του πατρος εκπορευεται εκεινος μαρτυρησει περι εμου
John 15:26 But when the Comforter is come, whom I will send unto you from the Father, even the Spirit of truth, which proceedeth from the Father, he shall testify of me:
John 15:27 και υμεις δε μαρτυρειτε οτι απ αρχης μετ εμου εστε
John 15:27 And ye also shall bear witness, because ye have been with me from the beginning.
John 16:1 ταυτα λελαληκα υμιν ινα μη σκανδαλισθητε
John 16:1 These things have I spoken unto you, that ye should not be offended.
John 16:2 αποσυναγωγους ποιησουσιν υμας αλλ ερχεται ωρα ινα πας ο αποκτεινας υμας δοξη λατρειαν προσφερειν τω θεω
John 16:2 They shall put you out of the synagogues: yea, the time cometh, that whosoever killeth you will think that he doeth God service.
John 16:3 και ταυτα ποιησουσιν υμιν οτι ουκ εγνωσαν τον πατερα ουδε εμε
John 16:3 And these things will they do unto you, because they have not known the Father, nor me.
John 16:4 αλλα ταυτα λελαληκα υμιν ινα οταν ελθη η ωρα μνημονευητε αυτων οτι εγω ειπον υμιν ταυτα δε υμιν εξ αρχης ουκ ειπον οτι μεθ υμων ημην
John 16:4 But these things have I told you, that when the time shall come, ye may remember that I told you of them. And these things I said not unto you at the beginning, because I was with you.
John 16:5 νυν δε υπαγω προς τον πεμψαντα με και ουδεις εξ υμων ερωτα με που υπαγεις
John 16:5 But now I go my way to him that sent me; and none of you asketh me, Whither goest thou?
John 16:6 αλλ οτι ταυτα λελαληκα υμιν η λυπη πεπληρωκεν υμων την καρδιαν
John 16:6 But because I have said these things unto you, sorrow hath filled your heart.
John 16:7 αλλ εγω την αληθειαν λεγω υμιν συμφερει υμιν ινα εγω απελθω εαν γαρ μη απελθω ο παρακλητος ουκ ελευσεται προς υμας εαν δε πορευθω πεμψω αυτον προς υμας
John 16:7 Nevertheless I tell you the truth; It is expedient for you that I go away: for if I go not away, the Comforter will not come unto you; but if I depart, I will send him unto you.
John 16:8 και ελθων εκεινος ελεγξει τον κοσμον περι αμαρτιας και περι δικαιοσυνης και περι κρισεως
John 16:8 And when he is come, he will reprove the world of sin, and of righteousness, and of judgment:
John 16:9 περι αμαρτιας μεν οτι ου πιστευουσιν εις εμε
John 16:9 Of sin, because they believe not on me;
John 16:10 περι δικαιοσυνης δε οτι προς τον πατερα μου υπαγω και ουκ ετι θεωρειτε με
John 16:10 Of righteousness, because I go to my Father, and ye see me no more;
John 16:11 περι δε κρισεως οτι ο αρχων του κοσμου τουτου κεκριται
John 16:11 Of judgment, because the prince of this world is judged.
John 16:12 ετι πολλα εχω λεγειν υμιν αλλ ου δυνασθε βασταζειν αρτι
John 16:12 I have yet many things to say unto you, but ye cannot bear them now.
John 16:13 οταν δε ελθη εκεινος το πνευμα της αληθειας οδηγησει υμας εις πασαν την αληθειαν ου γαρ λαλησει αφ εαυτου αλλ οσα αν ακουση λαλησει και τα ερχομενα αναγγελει υμιν
John 16:13 Howbeit when he, the Spirit of truth, is come, he will guide you into all truth: for he shall not speak of himself; but whatsoever he shall hear, that shall he speak: and he will shew you things to come.
John 16:14 εκεινος εμε δοξασει οτι εκ του εμου ληψεται και αναγγελει υμιν
John 16:14 He shall glorify me: for he shall receive of mine, and shall shew it unto you.
John 16:15 παντα οσα εχει ο πατηρ εμα εστιν δια τουτο ειπον οτι εκ του εμου ληψεται και αναγγελει υμιν
John 16:15 All things that the Father hath are mine: therefore said I, that he shall take of mine, and shall shew it unto you.
John 16:16 μικρον και ου θεωρειτε με και παλιν μικρον και οψεσθε με οτι εγω υπαγω προς τον πατερα
John 16:16 A little while, and ye shall not see me: and again, a little while, and ye shall see me, because I go to the Father.
John 16:17 ειπον ουν εκ των μαθητων αυτου προς αλληλους τι εστιν τουτο ο λεγει ημιν μικρον και ου θεωρειτε με και παλιν μικρον και οψεσθε με και οτι εγω υπαγω προς τον πατερα
John 16:17 Then said some of his disciples among themselves, What is this that he saith unto us, A little while, and ye shall not see me: and again, a little while, and ye shall see me: and, Because I go to the Father?
John 16:18 ελεγον ουν τουτο τι εστιν ο λεγει το μικρον ουκ οιδαμεν τι λαλει
John 16:18 They said therefore, What is this that he saith, A little while? we cannot tell what he saith.
John 16:19 εγνω ουν ο ιησους οτι ηθελον αυτον ερωταν και ειπεν αυτοις περι τουτου ζητειτε μετ αλληλων οτι ειπον μικρον και ου θεωρειτε με και παλιν μικρον και οψεσθε με
John 16:19 Now Jesus knew that they were desirous to ask him, and said unto them, Do ye enquire among yourselves of that I said, A little while, and ye shall not see me: and again, a little while, and ye shall see me?
John 16:20 αμην αμην λεγω υμιν οτι κλαυσετε και θρηνησετε υμεις ο δε κοσμος χαρησεται υμεις δε λυπηθησεσθε αλλ η λυπη υμων εις χαραν γενησεται
John 16:20 Verily, verily, I say unto you, That ye shall weep and lament, but the world shall rejoice: and ye shall be sorrowful, but your sorrow shall be turned into joy.
John 16:21 η γυνη οταν τικτη λυπην εχει οτι ηλθεν η ωρα αυτης οταν δε γεννηση το παιδιον ουκ ετι μνημονευει της θλιψεως δια την χαραν οτι εγεννηθη ανθρωπος εις τον κοσμον
John 16:21 A woman when she is in travail hath sorrow, because her hour is come: but as soon as she is delivered of the child, she remembereth no more the anguish, for joy that a man is born into the world.
John 16:22 και υμεις ουν λυπην μεν νυν εχετε παλιν δε οψομαι υμας και χαρησεται υμων η καρδια και την χαραν υμων ουδεις αιρει αφ υμων
John 16:22 And ye now therefore have sorrow: but I will see you again, and your heart shall rejoice, and your joy no man taketh from you.
John 16:23 και εν εκεινη τη ημερα εμε ουκ ερωτησετε ουδεν αμην αμην λεγω υμιν οτι οσα αν αιτησητε τον πατερα εν τω ονοματι μου δωσει υμιν
John 16:23 And in that day ye shall ask me nothing. Verily, verily, I say unto you, Whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in my name, he will give it you.
John 16:24 εως αρτι ουκ ητησατε ουδεν εν τω ονοματι μου αιτειτε και ληψεσθε ινα η χαρα υμων η πεπληρωμενη
John 16:24 Hitherto have ye asked nothing in my name: ask, and ye shall receive, that your joy may be full.
John 16:25 ταυτα εν παροιμιαις λελαληκα υμιν αλλ ερχεται ωρα οτε ουκ ετι εν παροιμιαις λαλησω υμιν αλλα παρρησια περι του πατρος αναγγελω υμιν
John 16:25 These things have I spoken unto you in proverbs: but the time cometh, when I shall no more speak unto you in proverbs, but I shall shew you plainly of the Father.
John 16:26 εν εκεινη τη ημερα εν τω ονοματι μου αιτησεσθε και ου λεγω υμιν οτι εγω ερωτησω τον πατερα περι υμων
John 16:26 At that day ye shall ask in my name: and I say not unto you, that I will pray the Father for you:
John 16:27 αυτος γαρ ο πατηρ φιλει υμας οτι υμεις εμε πεφιληκατε και πεπιστευκατε οτι εγω παρα του θεου εξηλθον
John 16:27 For the Father himself loveth you, because ye have loved me, and have believed that I came out from God.
John 16:28 εξηλθον παρα του πατρος και εληλυθα εις τον κοσμον παλιν αφιημι τον κοσμον και πορευομαι προς τον πατερα
John 16:28 I came forth from the Father, and am come into the world: again, I leave the world, and go to the Father.
John 16:29 λεγουσιν αυτω οι μαθηται αυτου ιδε νυν παρρησια λαλεις και παροιμιαν ουδεμιαν λεγεις
John 16:29 His disciples said unto him, Lo, now speakest thou plainly, and speakest no proverb.
John 16:30 νυν οιδαμεν οτι οιδας παντα και ου χρειαν εχεις ινα τις σε ερωτα εν τουτω πιστευομεν οτι απο θεου εξηλθες
John 16:30 Now are we sure that thou knowest all things, and needest not that any man should ask thee: by this we believe that thou camest forth from God.
John 16:31 απεκριθη αυτοις ο ιησους αρτι πιστευετε
John 16:31 Jesus answered them, Do ye now believe?
John 16:32 ιδου ερχεται ωρα και νυν εληλυθεν ινα σκορπισθητε εκαστος εις τα ιδια και εμε μονον αφητε και ουκ ειμι μονος οτι ο πατηρ μετ εμου εστιν
John 16:32 Behold, the hour cometh, yea, is now come, that ye shall be scattered, every man to his own, and shall leave me alone: and yet I am not alone, because the Father is with me.
John 16:33 ταυτα λελαληκα υμιν ινα εν εμοι ειρηνην εχητε εν τω κοσμω θλιψιν εχετε αλλα θαρσειτε εγω νενικηκα τον κοσμον
John 16:33 These things I have spoken unto you, that in me ye might have peace. In the world ye shall have tribulation: but be of good cheer; I have overcome the world.
John 17:1 ταυτα ελαλησεν ο ιησους και επηρεν τους οφθαλμους αυτου εις τον ουρανον και ειπεν πατερ εληλυθεν η ωρα δοξασον σου τον υιον ινα και ο υιος σου δοξαση σε
John 17:1 These words spake Jesus, and lifted up his eyes to heaven, and said, Father, the hour is come; glorify thy Son, that thy Son also may glorify thee:
John 17:2 καθως εδωκας αυτω εξουσιαν πασης σαρκος ινα παν ο δεδωκας αυτω δωση αυτοις ζωην αιωνιον
John 17:2 As thou hast given him power over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as thou hast given him.
John 17:3 αυτη δε εστιν η αιωνιος ζωη ινα γινωσκωσιν σε τον μονον αληθινον θεον και ον απεστειλας ιησουν χριστον
John 17:3 And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent.
John 17:4 εγω σε εδοξασα επι της γης το εργον ετελειωσα ο δεδωκας μοι ινα ποιησω
John 17:4 I have glorified thee on the earth: I have finished the work which thou gavest me to do.
John 17:5 και νυν δοξασον με συ πατερ παρα σεαυτω τη δοξη η ειχον προ του τον κοσμον ειναι παρα σοι
John 17:5 And now, O Father, glorify thou me with thine own self with the glory which I had with thee before the world was.
John 17:6 εφανερωσα σου το ονομα τοις ανθρωποις ους δεδωκας μοι εκ του κοσμου σοι ησαν και εμοι αυτους δεδωκας και τον λογον σου τετηρηκασιν
John 17:6 I have manifested thy name unto the men which thou gavest me out of the world: thine they were, and thou gavest them me; and they have kept thy word.
John 17:7 νυν εγνωκαν οτι παντα οσα δεδωκας μοι παρα σου εστιν
John 17:7 Now they have known that all things whatsoever thou hast given me are of thee.
John 17:8 οτι τα ρηματα α δεδωκας μοι δεδωκα αυτοις και αυτοι ελαβον και εγνωσαν αληθως οτι παρα σου εξηλθον και επιστευσαν οτι συ με απεστειλας
John 17:8 For I have given unto them the words which thou gavest me; and they have received them, and have known surely that I came out from thee, and they have believed that thou didst send me.
John 17:9 εγω περι αυτων ερωτω ου περι του κοσμου ερωτω αλλα περι ων δεδωκας μοι οτι σοι εισιν
John 17:9 I pray for them: I pray not for the world, but for them which thou hast given me; for they are thine.
John 17:10 και τα εμα παντα σα εστιν και τα σα εμα και δεδοξασμαι εν αυτοις
John 17:10 And all mine are thine, and thine are mine; and I am glorified in them.
John 17:11 και ουκ ετι ειμι εν τω κοσμω και ουτοι εν τω κοσμω εισιν και εγω προς σε ερχομαι πατερ αγιε τηρησον αυτους εν τω ονοματι σου ους δεδωκας μοι ινα ωσιν εν καθως ημεις
John 17:11 And now I am no more in the world, but these are in the world, and I come to thee. Holy Father, keep through thine own name those whom thou hast given me, that they may be one, as we are.
John 17:12 οτε ημην μετ αυτων εν τω κοσμω εγω ετηρουν αυτους εν τω ονοματι σου ους δεδωκας μοι εφυλαξα και ουδεις εξ αυτων απωλετο ει μη ο υιος της απωλειας ινα η γραφη πληρωθη
John 17:12 While I was with them in the world, I kept them in thy name: those that thou gavest me I have kept, and none of them is lost, but the son of perdition; that the scripture might be fulfilled.
John 17:13 νυν δε προς σε ερχομαι και ταυτα λαλω εν τω κοσμω ινα εχωσιν την χαραν την εμην πεπληρωμενην εν αυτοις
John 17:13 And now come I to thee; and these things I speak in the world, that they might have my joy fulfilled in themselves.
John 17:14 εγω δεδωκα αυτοις τον λογον σου και ο κοσμος εμισησεν αυτους οτι ουκ εισιν εκ του κοσμου καθως εγω ουκ ειμι εκ του κοσμου
John 17:14 I have given them thy word; and the world hath hated them, because they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world.
John 17:15 ουκ ερωτω ινα αρης αυτους εκ του κοσμου αλλ ινα τηρησης αυτους εκ του πονηρου
John 17:15 I pray not that thou shouldest take them out of the world, but that thou shouldest keep them from the evil.
John 17:16 εκ του κοσμου ουκ εισιν καθως εγω εκ του κοσμου ουκ ειμι
John 17:16 They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world.
John 17:17 αγιασον αυτους εν τη αληθεια σου ο λογος ο σος αληθεια εστιν
John 17:17 Sanctify them through thy truth: thy word is truth.
John 17:18 καθως εμε απεστειλας εις τον κοσμον καγω απεστειλα αυτους εις τον κοσμον
John 17:18 As thou hast sent me into the world, even so have I also sent them into the world.
John 17:19 και υπερ αυτων εγω αγιαζω εμαυτον ινα και αυτοι ωσιν ηγιασμενοι εν αληθεια
John 17:19 And for their sakes I sanctify myself, that they also might be sanctified through the truth.
John 17:20 ου περι τουτων δε ερωτω μονον αλλα και περι των πιστευσοντων δια του λογου αυτων εις εμε
John 17:20 Neither pray I for these alone, but for them also which shall believe on me through their word;
John 17:21 ινα παντες εν ωσιν καθως συ πατερ εν εμοι καγω εν σοι ινα και αυτοι εν ημιν εν ωσιν ινα ο κοσμος πιστευση οτι συ με απεστειλας
John 17:21 That they all may be one; as thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be one in us: that the world may believe that thou hast sent me.
John 17:22 και εγω την δοξαν ην δεδωκας μοι δεδωκα αυτοις ινα ωσιν εν καθως ημεις εν εσμεν
John 17:22 And the glory which thou gavest me I have given them; that they may be one, even as we are one:
John 17:23 εγω εν αυτοις και συ εν εμοι ινα ωσιν τετελειωμενοι εις εν και ινα γινωσκη ο κοσμος οτι συ με απεστειλας και ηγαπησας αυτους καθως εμε ηγαπησας
John 17:23 I in them, and thou in me, that they may be made perfect in one; and that the world may know that thou hast sent me, and hast loved them, as thou hast loved me.
John 17:24 πατερ ους δεδωκας μοι θελω ινα οπου ειμι εγω κακεινοι ωσιν μετ εμου ινα θεωρωσιν την δοξαν την εμην ην εδωκας μοι οτι ηγαπησας με προ καταβολης κοσμου
John 17:24 Father, I will that they also, whom thou hast given me, be with me where I am; that they may behold my glory, which thou hast given me: for thou lovedst me before the foundation of the world.
John 17:25 πατερ δικαιε και ο κοσμος σε ουκ εγνω εγω δε σε εγνων και ουτοι εγνωσαν οτι συ με απεστειλας
John 17:25 O righteous Father, the world hath not known thee: but I have known thee, and these have known that thou hast sent me.
John 17:26 και εγνωρισα αυτοις το ονομα σου και γνωρισω ινα η αγαπη ην ηγαπησας με εν αυτοις η καγω εν αυτοις
John 17:26 And I have declared unto them thy name, and will declare it: that the love wherewith thou hast loved me may be in them, and I in them.
John 18:1 ταυτα ειπων ο ιησους εξηλθεν συν τοις μαθηταις αυτου περαν του χειμαρρου των κεδρων οπου ην κηπος εις ον εισηλθεν αυτος και οι μαθηται αυτου
John 18:1 When Jesus had spoken these words, he went forth with his disciples over the brook Cedron, where was a garden, into the which he entered, and his disciples.
John 18:2 ηδει δε και ιουδας ο παραδιδους αυτον τον τοπον οτι πολλακις συνηχθη ο ιησους εκει μετα των μαθητων αυτου
John 18:2 And Judas also, which betrayed him, knew the place: for Jesus ofttimes resorted thither with his disciples.
John 18:3 ο ουν ιουδας λαβων την σπειραν και εκ των αρχιερεων και φαρισαιων υπηρετας ερχεται εκει μετα φανων και λαμπαδων και οπλων
John 18:3 Judas then, having received a band of men and officers from the chief priests and Pharisees, cometh thither with lanterns and torches and weapons.
John 18:4 ιησους ουν ειδως παντα τα ερχομενα επ αυτον εξελθων ειπεν αυτοις τινα ζητειτε
John 18:4 Jesus therefore, knowing all things that should come upon him, went forth, and said unto them, Whom seek ye?
John 18:5 απεκριθησαν αυτω ιησουν τον ναζωραιον λεγει αυτοις ο ιησους εγω ειμι ειστηκει δε και ιουδας ο παραδιδους αυτον μετ αυτων
John 18:5 They answered him, Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus saith unto them, I am he. And Judas also, which betrayed him, stood with them.
John 18:6 ως ουν ειπεν αυτοις οτι εγω ειμι απηλθον εις τα οπισω και επεσον χαμαι
John 18:6 As soon then as he had said unto them, I am he, they went backward, and fell to the ground.
John 18:7 παλιν ουν αυτους επηρωτησεν τινα ζητειτε οι δε ειπον ιησουν τον ναζωραιον
John 18:7 Then asked he them again, Whom seek ye? And they said, Jesus of Nazareth.
John 18:8 απεκριθη ο ιησους ειπον υμιν οτι εγω ειμι ει ουν εμε ζητειτε αφετε τουτους υπαγειν
John 18:8 Jesus answered, I have told you that I am he: if therefore ye seek me, let these go their way:
John 18:9 ινα πληρωθη ο λογος ον ειπεν οτι ους δεδωκας μοι ουκ απωλεσα εξ αυτων ουδενα
John 18:9 That the saying might be fulfilled, which he spake, Of them which thou gavest me have I lost none.
John 18:10 σιμων ουν πετρος εχων μαχαιραν ειλκυσεν αυτην και επαισεν τον του αρχιερεως δουλον και απεκοψεν αυτου το ωτιον το δεξιον ην δε ονομα τω δουλω μαλχος
John 18:10 Then Simon Peter having a sword drew it, and smote the high priest's servant, and cut off his right ear. The servant's name was Malchus.
John 18:11 ειπεν ουν ο ιησους τω πετρω βαλε την μαχαιραν σου εις την θηκην το ποτηριον ο δεδωκεν μοι ο πατηρ ου μη πιω αυτο
John 18:11 Then said Jesus unto Peter, Put up thy sword into the sheath: the cup which my Father hath given me, shall I not drink it?
John 18:12 η ουν σπειρα και ο χιλιαρχος και οι υπηρεται των ιουδαιων συνελαβον τον ιησουν και εδησαν αυτον
John 18:12 Then the band and the captain and officers of the Jews took Jesus, and bound him,
John 18:13 και απηγαγον αυτον προς ανναν πρωτον ην γαρ πενθερος του καιαφα ος ην αρχιερευς του ενιαυτου εκεινου
John 18:13 And led him away to Annas first; for he was father in law to Caiaphas, which was the high priest that same year.
John 18:14 ην δε καιαφας ο συμβουλευσας τοις ιουδαιοις οτι συμφερει ενα ανθρωπον απολεσθαι υπερ του λαου
John 18:14 Now Caiaphas was he, which gave counsel to the Jews, that it was expedient that one man should die for the people.
John 18:15 ηκολουθει δε τω ιησου σιμων πετρος και ο αλλος μαθητης ο δε μαθητης εκεινος ην γνωστος τω αρχιερει και συνεισηλθεν τω ιησου εις την αυλην του αρχιερεως
John 18:15 And Simon Peter followed Jesus, and so did another disciple: that disciple was known unto the high priest, and went in with Jesus into the palace of the high priest.
John 18:16 ο δε πετρος ειστηκει προς τη θυρα εξω εξηλθεν ουν ο μαθητης ο αλλος ος ην γνωστος τω αρχιερει και ειπεν τη θυρωρω και εισηγαγεν τον πετρον
John 18:16 But Peter stood at the door without. Then went out that other disciple, which was known unto the high priest, and spake unto her that kept the door, and brought in Peter.
John 18:17 λεγει ουν η παιδισκη η θυρωρος τω πετρω μη και συ εκ των μαθητων ει του ανθρωπου τουτου λεγει εκεινος ουκ ειμι
John 18:17 Then saith the damsel that kept the door unto Peter, Art not thou also one of this man's disciples? He saith, I am not.
John 18:18 ειστηκεισαν δε οι δουλοι και οι υπηρεται ανθρακιαν πεποιηκοτες οτι ψυχος ην και εθερμαινοντο ην δε μετ αυτων ο πετρος εστως και θερμαινομενος
John 18:18 And the servants and officers stood there, who had made a fire of coals; for it was cold: and they warmed themselves: and Peter stood with them, and warmed himself.
John 18:19 ο ουν αρχιερευς ηρωτησεν τον ιησουν περι των μαθητων αυτου και περι της διδαχης αυτου
John 18:19 The high priest then asked Jesus of his disciples, and of his doctrine.
John 18:20 απεκριθη αυτω ο ιησους εγω παρρησια ελαλησα τω κοσμω εγω παντοτε εδιδαξα εν τη συναγωγη και εν τω ιερω οπου παντοτε οι ιουδαιοι συνερχονται και εν κρυπτω ελαλησα ουδεν
John 18:20 Jesus answered him, I spake openly to the world; I ever taught in the synagogue, and in the temple, whither the Jews always resort; and in secret have I said nothing.
John 18:21 τι με επερωτας επερωτησον τους ακηκοοτας τι ελαλησα αυτοις ιδε ουτοι οιδασιν α ειπον εγω
John 18:21 Why askest thou me? ask them which heard me, what I have said unto them: behold, they know what I said.
John 18:22 ταυτα δε αυτου ειποντος εις των υπηρετων παρεστηκως εδωκεν ραπισμα τω ιησου ειπων ουτως αποκρινη τω αρχιερει
John 18:22 And when he had thus spoken, one of the officers which stood by struck Jesus with the palm of his hand, saying, Answerest thou the high priest so?
John 18:23 απεκριθη αυτω ο ιησους ει κακως ελαλησα μαρτυρησον περι του κακου ει δε καλως τι με δερεις
John 18:23 Jesus answered him, If I have spoken evil, bear witness of the evil: but if well, why smitest thou me?
John 18:24 απεστειλεν αυτον ο αννας δεδεμενον προς καιαφαν τον αρχιερεα
John 18:24 Now Annas had sent him bound unto Caiaphas the high priest.
John 18:25 ην δε σιμων πετρος εστως και θερμαινομενος ειπον ουν αυτω μη και συ εκ των μαθητων αυτου ει ηρνησατο εκεινος και ειπεν ουκ ειμι
John 18:25 And Simon Peter stood and warmed himself. They said therefore unto him, Art not thou also one of his disciples? He denied it, and said, I am not.
John 18:26 λεγει εις εκ των δουλων του αρχιερεως συγγενης ων ου απεκοψεν πετρος το ωτιον ουκ εγω σε ειδον εν τω κηπω μετ αυτου
John 18:26 One of the servants of the high priest, being his kinsman whose ear Peter cut off, saith, Did not I see thee in the garden with him?
John 18:27 παλιν ουν ηρνησατο ο πετρος και ευθεως αλεκτωρ εφωνησεν
John 18:27 Peter then denied again: and immediately the cock crew.
John 18:28 αγουσιν ουν τον ιησουν απο του καιαφα εις το πραιτωριον ην δε πρωια και αυτοι ουκ εισηλθον εις το πραιτωριον ινα μη μιανθωσιν αλλ ινα φαγωσιν το πασχα
John 18:28 Then led they Jesus from Caiaphas unto the hall of judgment: and it was early; and they themselves went not into the judgment hall, lest they should be defiled; but that they might eat the passover.
John 18:29 εξηλθεν ουν ο πιλατος προς αυτους και ειπεν τινα κατηγοριαν φερετε κατα του ανθρωπου τουτου
John 18:29 Pilate then went out unto them, and said, What accusation bring ye against this man?
John 18:30 απεκριθησαν και ειπον αυτω ει μη ην ουτος κακοποιος ουκ αν σοι παρεδωκαμεν αυτον
John 18:30 They answered and said unto him, If he were not a malefactor, we would not have delivered him up unto thee.
John 18:31 ειπεν ουν αυτοις ο πιλατος λαβετε αυτον υμεις και κατα τον νομον υμων κρινατε αυτον ειπον ουν αυτω οι ιουδαιοι ημιν ουκ εξεστιν αποκτειναι ουδενα
John 18:31 Then said Pilate unto them, Take ye him, and judge him according to your law. The Jews therefore said unto him, It is not lawful for us to put any man to death:
John 18:32 ινα ο λογος του ιησου πληρωθη ον ειπεν σημαινων ποιω θανατω ημελλεν αποθνησκειν
John 18:32 That the saying of Jesus might be fulfilled, which he spake, signifying what death he should die.
John 18:33 εισηλθεν ουν εις το πραιτωριον παλιν ο πιλατος και εφωνησεν τον ιησουν και ειπεν αυτω συ ει ο βασιλευς των ιουδαιων
John 18:33 Then Pilate entered into the judgment hall again, and called Jesus, and said unto him, Art thou the King of the Jews?
John 18:34 απεκριθη αυτω ο ιησους αφ εαυτου συ τουτο λεγεις η αλλοι σοι ειπον περι εμου
John 18:34 Jesus answered him, Sayest thou this thing of thyself, or did others tell it thee of me?
John 18:35 απεκριθη ο πιλατος μητι εγω ιουδαιος ειμι το εθνος το σον και οι αρχιερεις παρεδωκαν σε εμοι τι εποιησας
John 18:35 Pilate answered, Am I a Jew? Thine own nation and the chief priests have delivered thee unto me: what hast thou done?
John 18:36 απεκριθη ο ιησους η βασιλεια η εμη ουκ εστιν εκ του κοσμου τουτου ει εκ του κοσμου τουτου ην η βασιλεια η εμη οι υπηρεται αν οι εμοι ηγωνιζοντο ινα μη παραδοθω τοις ιουδαιοις νυν δε η βασιλεια η εμη ουκ εστιν εντευθεν
John 18:36 Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world: if my kingdom were of this world, then would my servants fight, that I should not be delivered to the Jews: but now is my kingdom not from hence.
John 18:37 ειπεν ουν αυτω ο πιλατος ουκουν βασιλευς ει συ απεκριθη ο ιησους συ λεγεις οτι βασιλευς ειμι εγω εγω εις τουτο γεγεννημαι και εις τουτο εληλυθα εις τον κοσμον ινα μαρτυρησω τη αληθεια πας ο ων εκ της αληθειας ακουει μου της φωνης
John 18:37 Pilate therefore said unto him, Art thou a king then? Jesus answered, Thou sayest that I am a king. To this end was I born, and for this cause came I into the world, that I should bear witness unto the truth. Every one that is of the truth heareth my voice.
John 18:38 λεγει αυτω ο πιλατος τι εστιν αληθεια και τουτο ειπων παλιν εξηλθεν προς τους ιουδαιους και λεγει αυτοις εγω ουδεμιαν αιτιαν ευρισκω εν αυτω
John 18:38 Pilate saith unto him, What is truth? And when he had said this, he went out again unto the Jews, and saith unto them, I find in him no fault at all.
John 18:39 εστιν δε συνηθεια υμιν ινα ενα υμιν απολυσω εν τω πασχα βουλεσθε ουν υμιν απολυσω τον βασιλεα των ιουδαιων
John 18:39 But ye have a custom, that I should release unto you one at the passover: will ye therefore that I release unto you the King of the Jews?
John 18:40 εκραυγασαν ουν παλιν παντες λεγοντες μη τουτον αλλα τον βαραββαν ην δε ο βαραββας ληστης
John 18:40 Then cried they all again, saying, Not this man, but Barabbas.  Now Barabbas was a robber.
John 19:1 τοτε ουν ελαβεν ο πιλατος τον ιησουν και εμαστιγωσεν
John 19:1 Then Pilate therefore took Jesus, and scourged him.
John 19:2 και οι στρατιωται πλεξαντες στεφανον εξ ακανθων επεθηκαν αυτου τη κεφαλη και ιματιον πορφυρουν περιεβαλον αυτον
John 19:2 And the soldiers platted a crown of thorns, and put it on his head, and they put on him a purple robe,
John 19:3 και ελεγον χαιρε ο βασιλευς των ιουδαιων και εδιδουν αυτω ραπισματα
John 19:3 And said, Hail, King of the Jews! and they smote him with their hands.
John 19:4 εξηλθεν ουν παλιν εξω ο πιλατος και λεγει αυτοις ιδε αγω υμιν αυτον εξω ινα γνωτε οτι εν αυτω ουδεμιαν αιτιαν ευρισκω
John 19:4 Pilate therefore went forth again, and saith unto them, Behold, I bring him forth to you, that ye may know that I find no fault in him.
John 19:5 εξηλθεν ουν ο ιησους εξω φορων τον ακανθινον στεφανον και το πορφυρουν ιματιον και λεγει αυτοις ιδε ο ανθρωπος
John 19:5 Then came Jesus forth, wearing the crown of thorns, and the purple robe. And Pilate saith unto them, Behold the man!
John 19:6 οτε ουν ειδον αυτον οι αρχιερεις και οι υπηρεται εκραυγασαν λεγοντες σταυρωσον σταυρωσον λεγει αυτοις ο πιλατος λαβετε αυτον υμεις και σταυρωσατε εγω γαρ ουχ ευρισκω εν αυτω αιτιαν
John 19:6 When the chief priests therefore and officers saw him, they cried out, saying, Crucify him, crucify him. Pilate saith unto them, Take ye him, and crucify him: for I find no fault in him.
John 19:7 απεκριθησαν αυτω οι ιουδαιοι ημεις νομον εχομεν και κατα τον νομον ημων οφειλει αποθανειν οτι εαυτον υιον θεου εποιησεν
John 19:7 The Jews answered him, We have a law, and by our law he ought to die, because he made himself the Son of God.
John 19:8 οτε ουν ηκουσεν ο πιλατος τουτον τον λογον μαλλον εφοβηθη
John 19:8 When Pilate therefore heard that saying, he was the more afraid;
John 19:9 και εισηλθεν εις το πραιτωριον παλιν και λεγει τω ιησου ποθεν ει συ ο δε ιησους αποκρισιν ουκ εδωκεν αυτω
John 19:9 And went again into the judgment hall, and saith unto Jesus, Whence art thou? But Jesus gave him no answer.
John 19:10 λεγει ουν αυτω ο πιλατος εμοι ου λαλεις ουκ οιδας οτι εξουσιαν εχω σταυρωσαι σε και εξουσιαν εχω απολυσαι σε
John 19:10 Then saith Pilate unto him, Speakest thou not unto me? knowest thou not that I have power to crucify thee, and have power to release thee?
John 19:11 απεκριθη ο ιησους ουκ ειχες εξουσιαν ουδεμιαν κατ εμου ει μη ην σοι δεδομενον ανωθεν δια τουτο ο παραδιδους με σοι μειζονα αμαρτιαν εχει
John 19:11 Jesus answered, Thou couldest have no power at all against me, except it were given thee from above: therefore he that delivered me unto thee hath the greater sin.
John 19:12 εκ τουτου εζητει ο πιλατος απολυσαι αυτον οι δε ιουδαιοι εκραζον λεγοντες εαν τουτον απολυσης ουκ ει φιλος του καισαρος πας ο βασιλεα αυτον ποιων αντιλεγει τω καισαρι
John 19:12 And from thenceforth Pilate sought to release him: but the Jews cried out, saying, If thou let this man go, thou art not Caesar's friend: whosoever maketh himself a king speaketh against Caesar.
John 19:13 ο ουν πιλατος ακουσας τουτον τον λογον ηγαγεν εξω τον ιησουν και εκαθισεν επι του βηματος εις τοπον λεγομενον λιθοστρωτον εβραιστι δε γαββαθα
John 19:13 When Pilate therefore heard that saying, he brought Jesus forth, and sat down in the judgment seat in a place that is called the Pavement, but in the Hebrew, Gabbatha.
John 19:14 ην δε παρασκευη του πασχα ωρα δε ωσει εκτη και λεγει τοις ιουδαιοις ιδε ο βασιλευς υμων
John 19:14 And it was the preparation of the passover, and about the sixth hour: and he saith unto the Jews, Behold your King!
John 19:15 οι δε εκραυγασαν αρον αρον σταυρωσον αυτον λεγει αυτοις ο πιλατος τον βασιλεα υμων σταυρωσω απεκριθησαν οι αρχιερεις ουκ εχομεν βασιλεα ει μη καισαρα
John 19:15 But they cried out, Away with him, away with him, crucify him.  Pilate saith unto them, Shall I crucify your King? The chief priests answered, We have no king but Caesar.
John 19:16 τοτε ουν παρεδωκεν αυτον αυτοις ινα σταυρωθη παρελαβον δε τον ιησουν και απηγαγον
John 19:16 Then delivered he him therefore unto them to be crucified. And they took Jesus, and led him away.
John 19:17 και βασταζων τον σταυρον αυτου εξηλθεν εις τον λεγομενον κρανιου τοπον ος λεγεται εβραιστι γολγοθα
John 19:17 And he bearing his cross went forth into a place called the place of a skull, which is called in the Hebrew Golgotha:
John 19:18 οπου αυτον εσταυρωσαν και μετ αυτου αλλους δυο εντευθεν και εντευθεν μεσον δε τον ιησουν
John 19:18 Where they crucified him, and two other with him, on either side one, and Jesus in the midst.
John 19:19 εγραψεν δε και τιτλον ο πιλατος και εθηκεν επι του σταυρου ην δε γεγραμμενον ιησους ο ναζωραιος ο βασιλευς των ιουδαιων
John 19:19 And Pilate wrote a title, and put it on the cross. And the writing was JESUS OF NAZARETH THE KING OF THE JEWS.
John 19:20 τουτον ουν τον τιτλον πολλοι ανεγνωσαν των ιουδαιων οτι εγγυς ην της πολεως ο τοπος οπου εσταυρωθη ο ιησους και ην γεγραμμενον εβραιστι ελληνιστι ρωμαιστι
John 19:20 This title then read many of the Jews: for the place where Jesus was crucified was nigh to the city: and it was written in Hebrew, and Greek, and Latin.
John 19:21 ελεγον ουν τω πιλατω οι αρχιερεις των ιουδαιων μη γραφε ο βασιλευς των ιουδαιων αλλ οτι εκεινος ειπεν βασιλευς ειμι των ιουδαιων
John 19:21 Then said the chief priests of the Jews to Pilate, Write not, The King of the Jews; but that he said, I am King of the Jews.
John 19:22 απεκριθη ο πιλατος ο γεγραφα γεγραφα
John 19:22 Pilate answered, What I have written I have written.
John 19:23 οι ουν στρατιωται οτε εσταυρωσαν τον ιησουν ελαβον τα ιματια αυτου και εποιησαν τεσσαρα μερη εκαστω στρατιωτη μερος και τον χιτωνα ην δε ο χιτων αρραφος εκ των ανωθεν υφαντος δι ολου
John 19:23 Then the soldiers, when they had crucified Jesus, took his garments, and made four parts, to every soldier a part; and also his coat: now the coat was without seam, woven from the top throughout.
John 19:24 ειπον ουν προς αλληλους μη σχισωμεν αυτον αλλα λαχωμεν περι αυτου τινος εσται ινα η γραφη πληρωθη η λεγουσα διεμερισαντο τα ιματια μου εαυτοις και επι τον ιματισμον μου εβαλον κληρον οι μεν ουν στρατιωται ταυτα εποιησαν
John 19:24 They said therefore among themselves, Let us not rend it, but cast lots for it, whose it shall be: that the scripture might be fulfilled, which saith, They parted my raiment among them, and for my vesture they did cast lots. These things therefore the soldiers did.
John 19:25 ειστηκεισαν δε παρα τω σταυρω του ιησου η μητηρ αυτου και η αδελφη της μητρος αυτου μαρια η του κλωπα και μαρια η μαγδαληνη
John 19:25 Now there stood by the cross of Jesus his mother, and his mother's sister, Mary the wife of Cleophas, and Mary Magdalene.
John 19:26 ιησους ουν ιδων την μητερα και τον μαθητην παρεστωτα ον ηγαπα λεγει τη μητρι αυτου γυναι ιδου ο υιος σου
John 19:26 When Jesus therefore saw his mother, and the disciple standing by, whom he loved, he saith unto his mother, Woman, behold thy son!
John 19:27 ειτα λεγει τω μαθητη ιδου η μητηρ σου και απ εκεινης της ωρας ελαβεν αυτην ο μαθητης εις τα ιδια
John 19:27 Then saith he to the disciple, Behold thy mother! And from that hour that disciple took her unto his own home.
John 19:28 μετα τουτο ειδως ο ιησους οτι παντα ηδη τετελεσται ινα τελειωθη η γραφη λεγει διψω
John 19:28 After this, Jesus knowing that all things were now accomplished, that the scripture might be fulfilled, saith, I thirst.
John 19:29 σκευος ουν εκειτο οξους μεστον οι δε πλησαντες σπογγον οξους και υσσωπω περιθεντες προσηνεγκαν αυτου τω στοματι
John 19:29 Now there was set a vessel full of vinegar: and they filled a spunge with vinegar, and put it upon hyssop, and put it to his mouth.
John 19:30 οτε ουν ελαβεν το οξος ο ιησους ειπεν τετελεσται και κλινας την κεφαλην παρεδωκεν το πνευμα
John 19:30 When Jesus therefore had received the vinegar, he said, It is finished: and he bowed his head, and gave up the ghost.
John 19:31 οι ουν ιουδαιοι ινα μη μεινη επι του σταυρου τα σωματα εν τω σαββατω επει παρασκευη ην ην γαρ μεγαλη η ημερα εκεινου του σαββατου ηρωτησαν τον πιλατον ινα κατεαγωσιν αυτων τα σκελη και αρθωσιν
John 19:31 The Jews therefore, because it was the preparation, that the bodies should not remain upon the cross on the sabbath day, (for that sabbath day was an high day,) besought Pilate that their legs might be broken, and that they might be taken away.
John 19:32 ηλθον ουν οι στρατιωται και του μεν πρωτου κατεαξαν τα σκελη και του αλλου του συσταυρωθεντος αυτω
John 19:32 Then came the soldiers, and brake the legs of the first, and of the other which was crucified with him.
John 19:33 επι δε τον ιησουν ελθοντες ως ειδον αυτον ηδη τεθνηκοτα ου κατεαξαν αυτου τα σκελη
John 19:33 But when they came to Jesus, and saw that he was dead already, they brake not his legs:
John 19:34 αλλ εις των στρατιωτων λογχη αυτου την πλευραν ενυξεν και ευθυς εξηλθεν αιμα και υδωρ
John 19:34 But one of the soldiers with a spear pierced his side, and forthwith came there out blood and water.
John 19:35 και ο εωρακως μεμαρτυρηκεν και αληθινη αυτου εστιν η μαρτυρια κακεινος οιδεν οτι αληθη λεγει ινα υμεις πιστευσητε
John 19:35 And he that saw it bare record, and his record is true: and he knoweth that he saith true, that ye might believe.
John 19:36 εγενετο γαρ ταυτα ινα η γραφη πληρωθη οστουν ου συντριβησεται αυτου
John 19:36 For these things were done, that the scripture should be fulfilled, A bone of him shall not be broken.
John 19:37 και παλιν ετερα γραφη λεγει οψονται εις ον εξεκεντησαν
John 19:37 And again another scripture saith, They shall look on him whom they pierced.
John 19:38 μετα δε ταυτα ηρωτησεν τον πιλατον ο ιωσηφ ο απο αριμαθαιας ων μαθητης του ιησου κεκρυμμενος δε δια τον φοβον των ιουδαιων ινα αρη το σωμα του ιησου και επετρεψεν ο πιλατος ηλθεν ουν και ηρεν το σωμα του ιησου
John 19:38 And after this Joseph of Arimathaea, being a disciple of Jesus, but secretly for fear of the Jews, besought Pilate that he might take away the body of Jesus: and Pilate gave him leave. He came therefore, and took the body of Jesus.
John 19:39 ηλθεν δε και νικοδημος ο ελθων προς τον ιησουν νυκτος το πρωτον φερων μιγμα σμυρνης και αλοης ωσει λιτρας εκατον
John 19:39 And there came also Nicodemus, which at the first came to Jesus by night, and brought a mixture of myrrh and aloes, about an hundred pound weight.
John 19:40 ελαβον ουν το σωμα του ιησου και εδησαν αυτο οθονιοις μετα των αρωματων καθως εθος εστιν τοις ιουδαιοις ενταφιαζειν
John 19:40 Then took they the body of Jesus, and wound it in linen clothes with the spices, as the manner of the Jews is to bury.
John 19:41 ην δε εν τω τοπω οπου εσταυρωθη κηπος και εν τω κηπω μνημειον καινον εν ω ουδεπω ουδεις ετεθη
John 19:41 Now in the place where he was crucified there was a garden; and in the garden a new sepulchre, wherein was never man yet laid.
John 19:42 εκει ουν δια την παρασκευην των ιουδαιων οτι εγγυς ην το μνημειον εθηκαν τον ιησουν
John 19:42 There laid they Jesus therefore because of the Jews' preparation day; for the sepulchre was nigh at hand.
John 20:1 τη δε μια των σαββατων μαρια η μαγδαληνη ερχεται πρωι σκοτιας ετι ουσης εις το μνημειον και βλεπει τον λιθον ηρμενον εκ του μνημειου
John 20:1 The first day of the week cometh Mary Magdalene early, when it was yet dark, unto the sepulchre, and seeth the stone taken away from the sepulchre.
John 20:2 τρεχει ουν και ερχεται προς σιμωνα πετρον και προς τον αλλον μαθητην ον εφιλει ο ιησους και λεγει αυτοις ηραν τον κυριον εκ του μνημειου και ουκ οιδαμεν που εθηκαν αυτον
John 20:2 Then she runneth, and cometh to Simon Peter, and to the other disciple, whom Jesus loved, and saith unto them, They have taken away the LORD out of the sepulchre, and we know not where they have laid him.
John 20:3 εξηλθεν ουν ο πετρος και ο αλλος μαθητης και ηρχοντο εις το μνημειον
John 20:3 Peter therefore went forth, and that other disciple, and came to the sepulchre.
John 20:4 ετρεχον δε οι δυο ομου και ο αλλος μαθητης προεδραμεν ταχιον του πετρου και ηλθεν πρωτος εις το μνημειον
John 20:4 So they ran both together: and the other disciple did outrun Peter, and came first to the sepulchre.
John 20:5 και παρακυψας βλεπει κειμενα τα οθονια ου μεντοι εισηλθεν
John 20:5 And he stooping down, and looking in, saw the linen clothes lying; yet went he not in.
John 20:6 ερχεται ουν σιμων πετρος ακολουθων αυτω και εισηλθεν εις το μνημειον και θεωρει τα οθονια κειμενα
John 20:6 Then cometh Simon Peter following him, and went into the sepulchre, and seeth the linen clothes lie,
John 20:7 και το σουδαριον ο ην επι της κεφαλης αυτου ου μετα των οθονιων κειμενον αλλα χωρις εντετυλιγμενον εις ενα τοπον
John 20:7 And the napkin, that was about his head, not lying with the linen clothes, but wrapped together in a place by itself.
John 20:8 τοτε ουν εισηλθεν και ο αλλος μαθητης ο ελθων πρωτος εις το μνημειον και ειδεν και επιστευσεν
John 20:8 Then went in also that other disciple, which came first to the sepulchre, and he saw, and believed.
John 20:9 ουδεπω γαρ ηδεισαν την γραφην οτι δει αυτον εκ νεκρων αναστηναι
John 20:9 For as yet they knew not the scripture, that he must rise again from the dead.
John 20:10 απηλθον ουν παλιν προς εαυτους οι μαθηται
John 20:10 Then the disciples went away again unto their own home.
John 20:11 μαρια δε ειστηκει προς το μνημειον κλαιουσα εξω ως ουν εκλαιεν παρεκυψεν εις το μνημειον
John 20:11 But Mary stood without at the sepulchre weeping: and as she wept, she stooped down, and looked into the sepulchre,
John 20:12 και θεωρει δυο αγγελους εν λευκοις καθεζομενους ενα προς τη κεφαλη και ενα προς τοις ποσιν οπου εκειτο το σωμα του ιησου
John 20:12 And seeth two angels in white sitting, the one at the head, and the other at the feet, where the body of Jesus had lain.
John 20:13 και λεγουσιν αυτη εκεινοι γυναι τι κλαιεις λεγει αυτοις οτι ηραν τον κυριον μου και ουκ οιδα που εθηκαν αυτον
John 20:13 And they say unto her, Woman, why weepest thou? She saith unto them, Because they have taken away my LORD, and I know not where they have laid him.
John 20:14 και ταυτα ειπουσα εστραφη εις τα οπισω και θεωρει τον ιησουν εστωτα και ουκ ηδει οτι ο ιησους εστιν
John 20:14 And when she had thus said, she turned herself back, and saw Jesus standing, and knew not that it was Jesus.
John 20:15 λεγει αυτη ο ιησους γυναι τι κλαιεις τινα ζητεις εκεινη δοκουσα οτι ο κηπουρος εστιν λεγει αυτω κυριε ει συ εβαστασας αυτον ειπε μοι που αυτον εθηκας καγω αυτον αρω
John 20:15 Jesus saith unto her, Woman, why weepest thou? whom seekest thou? She, supposing him to be the gardener, saith unto him, Sir, if thou have borne him hence, tell me where thou hast laid him, and I will take him away.
John 20:16 λεγει αυτη ο ιησους μαρια στραφεισα εκεινη λεγει αυτω ραββουνι ο λεγεται διδασκαλε
John 20:16 Jesus saith unto her, Mary. She turned herself, and saith unto him, Rabboni; which is to say, Master.
John 20:17 λεγει αυτη ο ιησους μη μου απτου ουπω γαρ αναβεβηκα προς τον πατερα μου πορευου δε προς τους αδελφους μου και ειπε αυτοις αναβαινω προς τον πατερα μου και πατερα υμων και θεον μου και θεον υμων
John 20:17 Jesus saith unto her, Touch me not; for I am not yet ascended to my Father: but go to my brethren, and say unto them, I ascend unto my Father, and your Father; and to my God, and your God.
John 20:18 ερχεται μαρια η μαγδαληνη απαγγελλουσα τοις μαθηταις οτι εωρακεν τον κυριον και ταυτα ειπεν αυτη
John 20:18 Mary Magdalene came and told the disciples that she had seen the LORD, and that he had spoken these things unto her.
John 20:19 ουσης ουν οψιας τη ημερα εκεινη τη μια των σαββατων και των θυρων κεκλεισμενων οπου ησαν οι μαθηται συνηγμενοι δια τον φοβον των ιουδαιων ηλθεν ο ιησους και εστη εις το μεσον και λεγει αυτοις ειρηνη υμιν
John 20:19 Then the same day at evening, being the first day of the week, when the doors were shut where the disciples were assembled for fear of the Jews, came Jesus and stood in the midst, and saith unto them, Peace be unto you.
John 20:20 και τουτο ειπων εδειξεν αυτοις τας χειρας και την πλευραν αυτου εχαρησαν ουν οι μαθηται ιδοντες τον κυριον
John 20:20 And when he had so said, he shewed unto them his hands and his side. Then were the disciples glad, when they saw the LORD.
John 20:21 ειπεν ουν αυτοις ο ιησους παλιν ειρηνη υμιν καθως απεσταλκεν με ο πατηρ καγω πεμπω υμας
John 20:21 Then said Jesus to them again, Peace be unto you: as my Father hath sent me, even so send I you.
John 20:22 και τουτο ειπων ενεφυσησεν και λεγει αυτοις λαβετε πνευμα αγιον
John 20:22 And when he had said this, he breathed on them, and saith unto them, Receive ye the Holy Ghost:
John 20:23 αν τινων αφητε τας αμαρτιας αφιενται αυτοις αν τινων κρατητε κεκρατηνται
John 20:23 Whose soever sins ye remit, they are remitted unto them; and whose soever sins ye retain, they are retained.
John 20:24 θωμας δε εις εκ των δωδεκα ο λεγομενος διδυμος ουκ ην μετ αυτων οτε ηλθεν ο ιησους
John 20:24 But Thomas, one of the twelve, called Didymus, was not with them when Jesus came.
John 20:25 ελεγον ουν αυτω οι αλλοι μαθηται εωρακαμεν τον κυριον ο δε ειπεν αυτοις εαν μη ιδω εν ταις χερσιν αυτου τον τυπον των ηλων και βαλω τον δακτυλον μου εις τον τυπον των ηλων και βαλω την χειρα μου εις την πλευραν αυτου ου μη πιστευσω
John 20:25 The other disciples therefore said unto him, We have seen the LORD. But he said unto them, Except I shall see in his hands the print of the nails, and put my finger into the print of the nails, and thrust my hand into his side, I will not believe.
John 20:26 και μεθ ημερας οκτω παλιν ησαν εσω οι μαθηται αυτου και θωμας μετ αυτων ερχεται ο ιησους των θυρων κεκλεισμενων και εστη εις το μεσον και ειπεν ειρηνη υμιν
John 20:26 And after eight days again his disciples were within, and Thomas with them: then came Jesus, the doors being shut, and stood in the midst, and said, Peace be unto you.
John 20:27 ειτα λεγει τω θωμα φερε τον δακτυλον σου ωδε και ιδε τας χειρας μου και φερε την χειρα σου και βαλε εις την πλευραν μου και μη γινου απιστος αλλα πιστος
John 20:27 Then saith he to Thomas, Reach hither thy finger, and behold my hands; and reach hither thy hand, and thrust it into my side: and be not faithless, but believing.
John 20:28 και απεκριθη ο θωμας και ειπεν αυτω ο κυριος μου και ο θεος μου
John 20:28 And Thomas answered and said unto him, My LORD and my God.
John 20:29 λεγει αυτω ο ιησους οτι εωρακας με θωμα πεπιστευκας μακαριοι οι μη ιδοντες και πιστευσαντες
John 20:29 Jesus saith unto him, Thomas, because thou hast seen me, thou hast believed: blessed are they that have not seen, and yet have believed.
John 20:30 πολλα μεν ουν και αλλα σημεια εποιησεν ο ιησους ενωπιον των μαθητων αυτου α ουκ εστιν γεγραμμενα εν τω βιβλιω τουτω
John 20:30 And many other signs truly did Jesus in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book:
John 20:31 ταυτα δε γεγραπται ινα πιστευσητε οτι ο ιησους εστιν ο χριστος ο υιος του θεου και ινα πιστευοντες ζωην εχητε εν τω ονοματι αυτου
John 20:31 But these are written, that ye might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God; and that believing ye might have life through his name.
John 21:1 μετα ταυτα εφανερωσεν εαυτον παλιν ο ιησους τοις μαθηταις επι της θαλασσης της τιβεριαδος εφανερωσεν δε ουτως
John 21:1 After these things Jesus shewed himself again to the disciples at the sea of Tiberias; and on this wise shewed he himself.
John 21:2 ησαν ομου σιμων πετρος και θωμας ο λεγομενος διδυμος και ναθαναηλ ο απο κανα της γαλιλαιας και οι του ζεβεδαιου και αλλοι εκ των μαθητων αυτου δυο
John 21:2 There were together Simon Peter, and Thomas called Didymus, and Nathanael of Cana in Galilee, and the sons of Zebedee, and two other of his disciples.
John 21:3 λεγει αυτοις σιμων πετρος υπαγω αλιευειν λεγουσιν αυτω ερχομεθα και ημεις συν σοι εξηλθον και ανεβησαν εις το πλοιον ευθυς και εν εκεινη τη νυκτι επιασαν ουδεν
John 21:3 Simon Peter saith unto them, I go a fishing. They say unto him, We also go with thee. They went forth, and entered into a ship immediately; and that night they caught nothing.
John 21:4 πρωιας δε ηδη γενομενης εστη ο ιησους εις τον αιγιαλον ου μεντοι ηδεισαν οι μαθηται οτι ιησους εστιν
John 21:4 But when the morning was now come, Jesus stood on the shore: but the disciples knew not that it was Jesus.
John 21:5 λεγει ουν αυτοις ο ιησους παιδια μη τι προσφαγιον εχετε απεκριθησαν αυτω ου
John 21:5 Then Jesus saith unto them, Children, have ye any meat? They answered him, No.
John 21:6 ο δε ειπεν αυτοις βαλετε εις τα δεξια μερη του πλοιου το δικτυον και ευρησετε εβαλον ουν και ουκ ετι αυτο ελκυσαι ισχυσαν απο του πληθους των ιχθυων
John 21:6 And he said unto them, Cast the net on the right side of the ship, and ye shall find. They cast therefore, and now they were not able to draw it for the multitude of fishes.
John 21:7 λεγει ουν ο μαθητης εκεινος ον ηγαπα ο ιησους τω πετρω ο κυριος εστιν σιμων ουν πετρος ακουσας οτι ο κυριος εστιν τον επενδυτην διεζωσατο ην γαρ γυμνος και εβαλεν εαυτον εις την θαλασσαν
John 21:7 Therefore that disciple whom Jesus loved saith unto Peter, It is the Lord. Now when Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he girt his fisher's coat unto him, (for he was naked,) and did cast himself into the sea.
John 21:8 οι δε αλλοι μαθηται τω πλοιαριω ηλθον ου γαρ ησαν μακραν απο της γης αλλ ως απο πηχων διακοσιων συροντες το δικτυον των ιχθυων
John 21:8 And the other disciples came in a little ship; (for they were not far from land, but as it were two hundred cubits,) dragging the net with fishes.
John 21:9 ως ουν απεβησαν εις την γην βλεπουσιν ανθρακιαν κειμενην και οψαριον επικειμενον και αρτον
John 21:9 As soon then as they were come to land, they saw a fire of coals there, and fish laid thereon, and bread.
John 21:10 λεγει αυτοις ο ιησους ενεγκατε απο των οψαριων ων επιασατε νυν
John 21:10 Jesus saith unto them, Bring of the fish which ye have now caught.
John 21:11 ανεβη σιμων πετρος και ειλκυσεν το δικτυον επι της γης μεστον ιχθυων μεγαλων εκατον πεντηκοντατριων και τοσουτων οντων ουκ εσχισθη το δικτυον
John 21:11 Simon Peter went up, and drew the net to land full of great fishes, an hundred and fifty and three: and for all there were so many, yet was not the net broken.
John 21:12 λεγει αυτοις ο ιησους δευτε αριστησατε ουδεις δε ετολμα των μαθητων εξετασαι αυτον συ τις ει ειδοτες οτι ο κυριος εστιν
John 21:12 Jesus saith unto them, Come and dine. And none of the disciples durst ask him, Who art thou? knowing that it was the Lord.
John 21:13 ερχεται ουν ο ιησους και λαμβανει τον αρτον και διδωσιν αυτοις και το οψαριον ομοιως
John 21:13 Jesus then cometh, and taketh bread, and giveth them, and fish likewise.
John 21:14 τουτο ηδη τριτον εφανερωθη ο ιησους τοις μαθηταις αυτου εγερθεις εκ νεκρων
John 21:14 This is now the third time that Jesus shewed himself to his disciples, after that he was risen from the dead.
John 21:15 οτε ουν ηριστησαν λεγει τω σιμωνι πετρω ο ιησους σιμων ιωνα αγαπας με πλειον τουτων λεγει αυτω ναι κυριε συ οιδας οτι φιλω σε λεγει αυτω βοσκε τα αρνια μου
John 21:15 So when they had dined, Jesus saith to Simon Peter, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me more than these? He saith unto him, Yea, Lord; thou knowest that I love thee. He saith unto him, Feed my lambs.
John 21:16 λεγει αυτω παλιν δευτερον σιμων ιωνα αγαπας με λεγει αυτω ναι κυριε συ οιδας οτι φιλω σε λεγει αυτω ποιμαινε τα προβατα μου
John 21:16 He saith to him again the second time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? He saith unto him, Yea, Lord; thou knowest that I love thee. He saith unto him, Feed my sheep.
John 21:17 λεγει αυτω το τριτον σιμων ιωνα φιλεις με ελυπηθη ο πετρος οτι ειπεν αυτω το τριτον φιλεις με και ειπεν αυτω κυριε συ παντα οιδας συ γινωσκεις οτι φιλω σε λεγει αυτω ο ιησους βοσκε τα προβατα μου
John 21:17 He saith unto him the third time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? Peter was grieved because he said unto him the third time, Lovest thou me? And he said unto him, Lord, thou knowest all things; thou knowest that I love thee. Jesus saith unto him, Feed my sheep.
John 21:18 αμην αμην λεγω σοι οτε ης νεωτερος εζωννυες σεαυτον και περιεπατεις οπου ηθελες οταν δε γηρασης εκτενεις τας χειρας σου και αλλος σε ζωσει και οισει οπου ου θελεις
John 21:18 Verily, verily, I say unto thee, When thou wast young, thou girdest thyself, and walkedst whither thou wouldest: but when thou shalt be old, thou shalt stretch forth thy hands, and another shall gird thee, and carry thee whither thou wouldest not.
John 21:19 τουτο δε ειπεν σημαινων ποιω θανατω δοξασει τον θεον και τουτο ειπων λεγει αυτω ακολουθει μοι
John 21:19 This spake he, signifying by what death he should glorify God.  And when he had spoken this, he saith unto him, Follow me.
John 21:20 επιστραφεις δε ο πετρος βλεπει τον μαθητην ον ηγαπα ο ιησους ακολουθουντα ος και ανεπεσεν εν τω δειπνω επι το στηθος αυτου και ειπεν κυριε τις εστιν ο παραδιδους σε
John 21:20 Then Peter, turning about, seeth the disciple whom Jesus loved following; which also leaned on his breast at supper, and said, Lord, which is he that betrayeth thee?
John 21:21 τουτον ιδων ο πετρος λεγει τω ιησου κυριε ουτος δε τι
John 21:21 Peter seeing him saith to Jesus, Lord, and what shall this man do?
John 21:22 λεγει αυτω ο ιησους εαν αυτον θελω μενειν εως ερχομαι τι προς σε συ ακολουθει μοι
John 21:22 Jesus saith unto him, If I will that he tarry till I come, what is that to thee? follow thou me.
John 21:23 εξηλθεν ουν ο λογος ουτος εις τους αδελφους οτι ο μαθητης εκεινος ουκ αποθνησκει και ουκ ειπεν αυτω ο ιησους οτι ουκ αποθνησκει αλλ εαν αυτον θελω μενειν εως ερχομαι τι προς σε
John 21:23 Then went this saying abroad among the brethren, that that disciple should not die: yet Jesus said not unto him, He shall not die; but, If I will that he tarry till I come, what is that to thee?
John 21:24 ουτος εστιν ο μαθητης ο μαρτυρων περι τουτων και γραψας ταυτα και οιδαμεν οτι αληθης εστιν η μαρτυρια αυτου
John 21:24 This is the disciple which testifieth of these things, and wrote these things: and we know that his testimony is true.
John 21:25 εστιν δε και αλλα πολλα οσα εποιησεν ο ιησους ατινα εαν γραφηται καθ εν ουδε αυτον οιμαι τον κοσμον χωρησαι τα γραφομενα βιβλια αμην
John 21:25 And there are also many other things which Jesus did, the which, if they should be written every one, I suppose that even the world itself could not contain the books that should be written. Amen.
Acts 1:1 τον μεν πρωτον λογον εποιησαμην περι παντων ω θεοφιλε ων ηρξατο ο ιησους ποιειν τε και διδασκειν
Acts 1:1 The former treatise have I made, O Theophilus, of all that Jesus began both to do and teach,
Acts 1:2 αχρι ης ημερας εντειλαμενος τοις αποστολοις δια πνευματος αγιου ους εξελεξατο ανεληφθη
Acts 1:2 Until the day in which he was taken up, after that he through the Holy Ghost had given commandments unto the apostles whom he had chosen:
Acts 1:3 οις και παρεστησεν εαυτον ζωντα μετα το παθειν αυτον εν πολλοις τεκμηριοις δι ημερων τεσσαρακοντα οπτανομενος αυτοις και λεγων τα περι της βασιλειας του θεου
Acts 1:3 To whom also he shewed himself alive after his passion by many infallible proofs, being seen of them forty days, and speaking of the things pertaining to the kingdom of God:
Acts 1:4 και συναλιζομενος παρηγγειλεν αυτοις απο ιεροσολυμων μη χωριζεσθαι αλλα περιμενειν την επαγγελιαν του πατρος ην ηκουσατε μου
Acts 1:4 And, being assembled together with them, commanded them that they should not depart from Jerusalem, but wait for the promise of the Father, which, saith he, ye have heard of me.
Acts 1:5 οτι ιωαννης μεν εβαπτισεν υδατι υμεις δε βαπτισθησεσθε εν πνευματι αγιω ου μετα πολλας ταυτας ημερας
Acts 1:5 For John truly baptized with water; but ye shall be baptized with the Holy Ghost not many days hence.
Acts 1:6 οι μεν ουν συνελθοντες επηρωτων αυτον λεγοντες κυριε ει εν τω χρονω τουτω αποκαθιστανεις την βασιλειαν τω ισραηλ
Acts 1:6 When they therefore were come together, they asked of him, saying, Lord, wilt thou at this time restore again the kingdom to Israel?
Acts 1:7 ειπεν δε προς αυτους ουχ υμων εστιν γνωναι χρονους η καιρους ους ο πατηρ εθετο εν τη ιδια εξουσια
Acts 1:7 And he said unto them, It is not for you to know the times or the seasons, which the Father hath put in his own power.
Acts 1:8 αλλα ληψεσθε δυναμιν επελθοντος του αγιου πνευματος εφ υμας και εσεσθε μοι μαρτυρες εν τε ιερουσαλημ και εν παση τη ιουδαια και σαμαρεια και εως εσχατου της γης
Acts 1:8 But ye shall receive power, after that the Holy Ghost is come upon you: and ye shall be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem, and in all Judaea, and in Samaria, and unto the uttermost part of the earth.
Acts 1:9 και ταυτα ειπων βλεποντων αυτων επηρθη και νεφελη υπελαβεν αυτον απο των οφθαλμων αυτων
Acts 1:9 And when he had spoken these things, while they beheld, he was taken up; and a cloud received him out of their sight.
Acts 1:10 και ως ατενιζοντες ησαν εις τον ουρανον πορευομενου αυτου και ιδου ανδρες δυο παρειστηκεισαν αυτοις εν εσθητι λευκη
Acts 1:10 And while they looked stedfastly toward heaven as he went up, behold, two men stood by them in white apparel;
Acts 1:11 οι και ειπον ανδρες γαλιλαιοι τι εστηκατε εμβλεποντες εις τον ουρανον ουτος ο ιησους ο αναληφθεις αφ υμων εις τον ουρανον ουτως ελευσεται ον τροπον εθεασασθε αυτον πορευομενον εις τον ουρανον
Acts 1:11 Which also said, Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye gazing up into heaven? this same Jesus, which is taken up from you into heaven, shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven.
Acts 1:12 τοτε υπεστρεψαν εις ιερουσαλημ απο ορους του καλουμενου ελαιωνος ο εστιν εγγυς ιερουσαλημ σαββατου εχον οδον
Acts 1:12 Then returned they unto Jerusalem from the mount called Olivet, which is from Jerusalem a sabbath day's journey.
Acts 1:13 και οτε εισηλθον ανεβησαν εις το υπερωον ου ησαν καταμενοντες ο τε πετρος και ιακωβος και ιωαννης και ανδρεας φιλιππος και θωμας βαρθολομαιος και ματθαιος ιακωβος αλφαιου και σιμων ο ζηλωτης και ιουδας ιακωβου
Acts 1:13 And when they were come in, they went up into an upper room, where abode both Peter, and James, and John, and Andrew, Philip, and Thomas, Bartholomew, and Matthew, James the son of Alphaeus, and Simon Zelotes, and Judas the brother of James.
Acts 1:14 ουτοι παντες ησαν προσκαρτερουντες ομοθυμαδον τη προσευχη και τη δεησει συν γυναιξιν και μαρια τη μητρι του ιησου και συν τοις αδελφοις αυτου
Acts 1:14 These all continued with one accord in prayer and supplication, with the women, and Mary the mother of Jesus, and with his brethren.
Acts 1:15 και εν ταις ημεραις ταυταις αναστας πετρος εν μεσω των μαθητων ειπεν ην τε οχλος ονοματων επι το αυτο ως εκατον εικοσιν
Acts 1:15 And in those days Peter stood up in the midst of the disciples, and said, (the number of names together were about an hundred and twenty,)
Acts 1:16 ανδρες αδελφοι εδει πληρωθηναι την γραφην ταυτην ην προειπεν το πνευμα το αγιον δια στοματος δαβιδ περι ιουδα του γενομενου οδηγου τοις συλλαβουσιν τον ιησουν
Acts 1:16 Men and brethren, this scripture must needs have been fulfilled, which the Holy Ghost by the mouth of David spake before concerning Judas, which was guide to them that took Jesus.
Acts 1:17 οτι κατηριθμημενος ην συν ημιν και ελαχεν τον κληρον της διακονιας ταυτης
Acts 1:17 For he was numbered with us, and had obtained part of this ministry.
Acts 1:18 ουτος μεν ουν εκτησατο χωριον εκ του μισθου της αδικιας και πρηνης γενομενος ελακησεν μεσος και εξεχυθη παντα τα σπλαγχνα αυτου
Acts 1:18 Now this man purchased a field with the reward of iniquity; and falling headlong, he burst asunder in the midst, and all his bowels gushed out.
Acts 1:19 και γνωστον εγενετο πασιν τοις κατοικουσιν ιερουσαλημ ωστε κληθηναι το χωριον εκεινο τη ιδια διαλεκτω αυτων ακελδαμα τουτεστιν χωριον αιματος
Acts 1:19 And it was known unto all the dwellers at Jerusalem; insomuch as that field is called in their proper tongue, Aceldama, that is to say, The field of blood.
Acts 1:20 γεγραπται γαρ εν βιβλω ψαλμων γενηθητω η επαυλις αυτου ερημος και μη εστω ο κατοικων εν αυτη και την επισκοπην αυτου λαβοι ετερος
Acts 1:20 For it is written in the book of Psalms, Let his habitation be desolate, and let no man dwell therein: and his bishoprick let another take.
Acts 1:21 δει ουν των συνελθοντων ημιν ανδρων εν παντι χρονω εν ω εισηλθεν και εξηλθεν εφ ημας ο κυριος ιησους
Acts 1:21 Wherefore of these men which have companied with us all the time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us,
Acts 1:22 αρξαμενος απο του βαπτισματος ιωαννου εως της ημερας ης ανεληφθη αφ ημων μαρτυρα της αναστασεως αυτου γενεσθαι συν ημιν ενα τουτων
Acts 1:22 Beginning from the baptism of John, unto that same day that he was taken up from us, must one be ordained to be a witness with us of his resurrection.
Acts 1:23 και εστησαν δυο ιωσηφ τον καλουμενον βαρσαβαν ος επεκληθη ιουστος και ματθιαν
Acts 1:23 And they appointed two, Joseph called Barsabas, who was surnamed Justus, and Matthias.
Acts 1:24 και προσευξαμενοι ειπον συ κυριε καρδιογνωστα παντων αναδειξον εκ τουτων των δυο ενα ον εξελεξω
Acts 1:24 And they prayed, and said, Thou, Lord, which knowest the hearts of all men, shew whether of these two thou hast chosen,
Acts 1:25 λαβειν τον κληρον της διακονιας ταυτης και αποστολης εξ ης παρεβη ιουδας πορευθηναι εις τον τοπον τον ιδιον
Acts 1:25 That he may take part of this ministry and apostleship, from which Judas by transgression fell, that he might go to his own place.
Acts 1:26 και εδωκαν κληρους αυτων και επεσεν ο κληρος επι ματθιαν και συγκατεψηφισθη μετα των ενδεκα αποστολων
Acts 1:26 And they gave forth their lots; and the lot fell upon Matthias; and he was numbered with the eleven apostles.
Acts 2:1 και εν τω συμπληρουσθαι την ημεραν της πεντηκοστης ησαν απαντες ομοθυμαδον επι το αυτο
Acts 2:1 And when the day of Pentecost was fully come, they were all with one accord in one place.
Acts 2:2 και εγενετο αφνω εκ του ουρανου ηχος ωσπερ φερομενης πνοης βιαιας και επληρωσεν ολον τον οικον ου ησαν καθημενοι
Acts 2:2 And suddenly there came a sound from heaven as of a rushing mighty wind, and it filled all the house where they were sitting.
Acts 2:3 και ωφθησαν αυτοις διαμεριζομεναι γλωσσαι ωσει πυρος εκαθισεν τε εφ ενα εκαστον αυτων
Acts 2:3 And there appeared unto them cloven tongues like as of fire, and it sat upon each of them.
Acts 2:4 και επλησθησαν απαντες πνευματος αγιου και ηρξαντο λαλειν ετεραις γλωσσαις καθως το πνευμα εδιδου αυτοις αποφθεγγεσθαι
Acts 2:4 And they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and began to speak with other tongues, as the Spirit gave them utterance.
Acts 2:5 ησαν δε εν ιερουσαλημ κατοικουντες ιουδαιοι ανδρες ευλαβεις απο παντος εθνους των υπο τον ουρανον
Acts 2:5 And there were dwelling at Jerusalem Jews, devout men, out of every nation under heaven.
Acts 2:6 γενομενης δε της φωνης ταυτης συνηλθεν το πληθος και συνεχυθη οτι ηκουον εις εκαστος τη ιδια διαλεκτω λαλουντων αυτων
Acts 2:6 Now when this was noised abroad, the multitude came together, and were confounded, because that every man heard them speak in his own language.
Acts 2:7 εξισταντο δε παντες και εθαυμαζον λεγοντες προς αλληλους ουκ ιδου παντες ουτοι εισιν οι λαλουντες γαλιλαιοι
Acts 2:7 And they were all amazed and marvelled, saying one to another, Behold, are not all these which speak Galilaeans?
Acts 2:8 και πως ημεις ακουομεν εκαστος τη ιδια διαλεκτω ημων εν η εγεννηθημεν
Acts 2:8 And how hear we every man in our own tongue, wherein we were born?
Acts 2:9 παρθοι και μηδοι και ελαμιται και οι κατοικουντες την μεσοποταμιαν ιουδαιαν τε και καππαδοκιαν ποντον και την ασιαν
Acts 2:9 Parthians, and Medes, and Elamites, and the dwellers in Mesopotamia, and in Judaea, and Cappadocia, in Pontus, and Asia,
Acts 2:10 φρυγιαν τε και παμφυλιαν αιγυπτον και τα μερη της λιβυης της κατα κυρηνην και οι επιδημουντες ρωμαιοι ιουδαιοι τε και προσηλυτοι
Acts 2:10 Phrygia, and Pamphylia, in Egypt, and in the parts of Libya about Cyrene, and strangers of Rome, Jews and proselytes,
Acts 2:11 κρητες και αραβες ακουομεν λαλουντων αυτων ταις ημετεραις γλωσσαις τα μεγαλεια του θεου
Acts 2:11 Cretes and Arabians, we do hear them speak in our tongues the wonderful works of God.
Acts 2:12 εξισταντο δε παντες και διηπορουν αλλος προς αλλον λεγοντες τι αν θελοι τουτο ειναι
Acts 2:12 And they were all amazed, and were in doubt, saying one to another, What meaneth this?
Acts 2:13 ετεροι δε χλευαζοντες ελεγον οτι γλευκους μεμεστωμενοι εισιν
Acts 2:13 Others mocking said, These men are full of new wine.
Acts 2:14 σταθεις δε πετρος συν τοις ενδεκα επηρεν την φωνην αυτου και απεφθεγξατο αυτοις ανδρες ιουδαιοι και οι κατοικουντες ιερουσαλημ απαντες τουτο υμιν γνωστον εστω και ενωτισασθε τα ρηματα μου
Acts 2:14 But Peter, standing up with the eleven, lifted up his voice, and said unto them, Ye men of Judaea, and all ye that dwell at Jerusalem, be this known unto you, and hearken to my words:
Acts 2:15 ου γαρ ως υμεις υπολαμβανετε ουτοι μεθυουσιν εστιν γαρ ωρα τριτη της ημερας
Acts 2:15 For these are not drunken, as ye suppose, seeing it is but the third hour of the day.
Acts 2:16 αλλα τουτο εστιν το ειρημενον δια του προφητου ιωηλ
Acts 2:16 But this is that which was spoken by the prophet Joel;
Acts 2:17 και εσται εν ταις εσχαταις ημεραις λεγει ο θεος εκχεω απο του πνευματος μου επι πασαν σαρκα και προφητευσουσιν οι υιοι υμων και αι θυγατερες υμων και οι νεανισκοι υμων ορασεις οψονται και οι πρεσβυτεροι υμων ενυπνια ενυπνιασθησονται
Acts 2:17 And it shall come to pass in the last days, saith God, I will pour out of my Spirit upon all flesh: and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, and your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dream dreams:
Acts 2:18 και γε επι τους δουλους μου και επι τας δουλας μου εν ταις ημεραις εκειναις εκχεω απο του πνευματος μου και προφητευσουσιν
Acts 2:18 And on my servants and on my handmaidens I will pour out in those days of my Spirit; and they shall prophesy:
Acts 2:19 και δωσω τερατα εν τω ουρανω ανω και σημεια επι της γης κατω αιμα και πυρ και ατμιδα καπνου
Acts 2:19 And I will shew wonders in heaven above, and signs in the earth beneath; blood, and fire, and vapour of smoke:
Acts 2:20 ο ηλιος μεταστραφησεται εις σκοτος και η σεληνη εις αιμα πριν η ελθειν την ημεραν κυριου την μεγαλην και επιφανη
Acts 2:20 The sun shall be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood, before the great and notable day of the Lord come:
Acts 2:21 και εσται πας ος αν επικαλεσηται το ονομα κυριου σωθησεται
Acts 2:21 And it shall come to pass, that whosoever shall call on the name of the Lord shall be saved.
Acts 2:22 ανδρες ισραηλιται ακουσατε τους λογους τουτους ιησουν τον ναζωραιον ανδρα απο του θεου αποδεδειγμενον εις υμας δυναμεσιν και τερασιν και σημειοις οις εποιησεν δι αυτου ο θεος εν μεσω υμων καθως και αυτοι οιδατε
Acts 2:22 Ye men of Israel, hear these words; Jesus of Nazareth, a man approved of God among you by miracles and wonders and signs, which God did by him in the midst of you, as ye yourselves also know:
Acts 2:23 τουτον τη ωρισμενη βουλη και προγνωσει του θεου εκδοτον λαβοντες δια χειρων ανομων προσπηξαντες ανειλετε
Acts 2:23 Him, being delivered by the determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God, ye have taken, and by wicked hands have crucified and slain:
Acts 2:24 ον ο θεος ανεστησεν λυσας τας ωδινας του θανατου καθοτι ουκ ην δυνατον κρατεισθαι αυτον υπ αυτου
Acts 2:24 Whom God hath raised up, having loosed the pains of death: because it was not possible that he should be holden of it.
Acts 2:25 δαβιδ γαρ λεγει εις αυτον προωρωμην τον κυριον ενωπιον μου δια παντος οτι εκ δεξιων μου εστιν ινα μη σαλευθω
Acts 2:25 For David speaketh concerning him, I foresaw the Lord always before my face, for he is on my right hand, that I should not be moved:
Acts 2:26 δια τουτο ευφρανθη η καρδια μου και ηγαλλιασατο η γλωσσα μου ετι δε και η σαρξ μου κατασκηνωσει επ ελπιδι
Acts 2:26 Therefore did my heart rejoice, and my tongue was glad; moreover also my flesh shall rest in hope:
Acts 2:27 οτι ουκ εγκαταλειψεις την ψυχην μου εις αδου ουδε δωσεις τον οσιον σου ιδειν διαφθοραν
Acts 2:27 Because thou wilt not leave my soul in hell, neither wilt thou suffer thine Holy One to see corruption.
Acts 2:28 εγνωρισας μοι οδους ζωης πληρωσεις με ευφροσυνης μετα του προσωπου σου
Acts 2:28 Thou hast made known to me the ways of life; thou shalt make me full of joy with thy countenance.
Acts 2:29 ανδρες αδελφοι εξον ειπειν μετα παρρησιας προς υμας περι του πατριαρχου δαβιδ οτι και ετελευτησεν και εταφη και το μνημα αυτου εστιν εν ημιν αχρι της ημερας ταυτης
Acts 2:29 Men and brethren, let me freely speak unto you of the patriarch David, that he is both dead and buried, and his sepulchre is with us unto this day.
Acts 2:30 προφητης ουν υπαρχων και ειδως οτι ορκω ωμοσεν αυτω ο θεος εκ καρπου της οσφυος αυτου το κατα σαρκα αναστησειν τον χριστον καθισαι επι του θρονου αυτου
Acts 2:30 Therefore being a prophet, and knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him, that of the fruit of his loins, according to the flesh, he would raise up Christ to sit on his throne;
Acts 2:31 προιδων ελαλησεν περι της αναστασεως του χριστου οτι ου κατελειφθη η ψυχη αυτου εις αδου ουδε η σαρξ αυτου ειδεν διαφθοραν
Acts 2:31 He seeing this before spake of the resurrection of Christ, that his soul was not left in hell, neither his flesh did see corruption.
Acts 2:32 τουτον τον ιησουν ανεστησεν ο θεος ου παντες ημεις εσμεν μαρτυρες
Acts 2:32 This Jesus hath God raised up, whereof we all are witnesses.
Acts 2:33 τη δεξια ουν του θεου υψωθεις την τε επαγγελιαν του αγιου πνευματος λαβων παρα του πατρος εξεχεεν τουτο ο νυν υμεις βλεπετε και ακουετε
Acts 2:33 Therefore being by the right hand of God exalted, and having received of the Father the promise of the Holy Ghost, he hath shed forth this, which ye now see and hear.
Acts 2:34 ου γαρ δαβιδ ανεβη εις τους ουρανους λεγει δε αυτος ειπεν ο κυριος τω κυριω μου καθου εκ δεξιων μου
Acts 2:34 For David is not ascended into the heavens: but he saith himself, The Lord said unto my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand,
Acts 2:35 εως αν θω τους εχθρους σου υποποδιον των ποδων σου
Acts 2:35 Until I make thy foes thy footstool.
Acts 2:36 ασφαλως ουν γινωσκετω πας οικος ισραηλ οτι και κυριον και χριστον αυτον ο θεος εποιησεν τουτον τον ιησουν ον υμεις εσταυρωσατε
Acts 2:36 Therefore let all the house of Israel know assuredly, that God hath made the same Jesus, whom ye have crucified, both Lord and Christ.
Acts 2:37 ακουσαντες δε κατενυγησαν τη καρδια ειπον τε προς τον πετρον και τους λοιπους αποστολους τι ποιησομεν ανδρες αδελφοι
Acts 2:37 Now when they heard this, they were pricked in their heart, and said unto Peter and to the rest of the apostles, Men and brethren, what shall we do?
Acts 2:38 πετρος δε εφη προς αυτους μετανοησατε και βαπτισθητω εκαστος υμων επι τω ονοματι ιησου χριστου εις αφεσιν αμαρτιων και ληψεσθε την δωρεαν του αγιου πνευματος
Acts 2:38 Then Peter said unto them, Repent, and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins, and ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost.
Acts 2:39 υμιν γαρ εστιν η επαγγελια και τοις τεκνοις υμων και πασιν τοις εις μακραν οσους αν προσκαλεσηται κυριος ο θεος ημων
Acts 2:39 For the promise is unto you, and to your children, and to all that are afar off, even as many as the LORD our God shall call.
Acts 2:40 ετεροις τε λογοις πλειοσιν διεμαρτυρετο και παρεκαλει λεγων σωθητε απο της γενεας της σκολιας ταυτης
Acts 2:40 And with many other words did he testify and exhort, saying, Save yourselves from this untoward generation.
Acts 2:41 οι μεν ουν ασμενως αποδεξαμενοι τον λογον αυτου εβαπτισθησαν και προσετεθησαν τη ημερα εκεινη ψυχαι ωσει τρισχιλιαι
Acts 2:41 Then they that gladly received his word were baptized: and the same day there were added unto them about three thousand souls.
Acts 2:42 ησαν δε προσκαρτερουντες τη διδαχη των αποστολων και τη κοινωνια και τη κλασει του αρτου και ταις προσευχαις
Acts 2:42 And they continued stedfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship, and in breaking of bread, and in prayers.
Acts 2:43 εγενετο δε παση ψυχη φοβος πολλα τε τερατα και σημεια δια των αποστολων εγινετο
Acts 2:43 And fear came upon every soul: and many wonders and signs were done by the apostles.
Acts 2:44 παντες δε οι πιστευοντες ησαν επι το αυτο και ειχον απαντα κοινα
Acts 2:44 And all that believed were together, and had all things common;
Acts 2:45 και τα κτηματα και τας υπαρξεις επιπρασκον και διεμεριζον αυτα πασιν καθοτι αν τις χρειαν ειχεν
Acts 2:45 And sold their possessions and goods, and parted them to all men, as every man had need.
Acts 2:46 καθ ημεραν τε προσκαρτερουντες ομοθυμαδον εν τω ιερω κλωντες τε κατ οικον αρτον μετελαμβανον τροφης εν αγαλλιασει και αφελοτητι καρδιας
Acts 2:46 And they, continuing daily with one accord in the temple, and breaking bread from house to house, did eat their meat with gladness and singleness of heart,
Acts 2:47 αινουντες τον θεον και εχοντες χαριν προς ολον τον λαον ο δε κυριος προσετιθει τους σωζομενους καθ ημεραν τη εκκλησια
Acts 2:47 Praising God, and having favour with all the people. And the Lord added to the church daily such as should be saved.
Acts 3:1 επι το αυτο δε πετρος και ιωαννης ανεβαινον εις το ιερον επι την ωραν της προσευχης την εννατην
Acts 3:1 Now Peter and John went up together into the temple at the hour of prayer, being the ninth hour.
Acts 3:2 και τις ανηρ χωλος εκ κοιλιας μητρος αυτου υπαρχων εβασταζετο ον ετιθουν καθ ημεραν προς την θυραν του ιερου την λεγομενην ωραιαν του αιτειν ελεημοσυνην παρα των εισπορευομενων εις το ιερον
Acts 3:2 And a certain man lame from his mother's womb was carried, whom they laid daily at the gate of the temple which is called Beautiful, to ask alms of them that entered into the temple;
Acts 3:3 ος ιδων πετρον και ιωαννην μελλοντας εισιεναι εις το ιερον ηρωτα ελεημοσυνην λαβειν
Acts 3:3 Who seeing Peter and John about to go into the temple asked an alms.
Acts 3:4 ατενισας δε πετρος εις αυτον συν τω ιωαννη ειπεν βλεψον εις ημας
Acts 3:4 And Peter, fastening his eyes upon him with John, said, Look on us.
Acts 3:5 ο δε επειχεν αυτοις προσδοκων τι παρ αυτων λαβειν
Acts 3:5 And he gave heed unto them, expecting to receive something of them.
Acts 3:6 ειπεν δε πετρος αργυριον και χρυσιον ουχ υπαρχει μοι ο δε εχω τουτο σοι διδωμι εν τω ονοματι ιησου χριστου του ναζωραιου εγειραι και περιπατει
Acts 3:6 Then Peter said, Silver and gold have I none; but such as I have give I thee: In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth rise up and walk.
Acts 3:7 και πιασας αυτον της δεξιας χειρος ηγειρεν παραχρημα δε εστερεωθησαν αυτου αι βασεις και τα σφυρα
Acts 3:7 And he took him by the right hand, and lifted him up: and immediately his feet and ankle bones received strength.
Acts 3:8 και εξαλλομενος εστη και περιεπατει και εισηλθεν συν αυτοις εις το ιερον περιπατων και αλλομενος και αινων τον θεον
Acts 3:8 And he leaping up stood, and walked, and entered with them into the temple, walking, and leaping, and praising God.
Acts 3:9 και ειδεν αυτον πας ο λαος περιπατουντα και αινουντα τον θεον
Acts 3:9 And all the people saw him walking and praising God:
Acts 3:10 επεγινωσκον τε αυτον οτι ουτος ην ο προς την ελεημοσυνην καθημενος επι τη ωραια πυλη του ιερου και επλησθησαν θαμβους και εκστασεως επι τω συμβεβηκοτι αυτω
Acts 3:10 And they knew that it was he which sat for alms at the Beautiful gate of the temple: and they were filled with wonder and amazement at that which had happened unto him.
Acts 3:11 κρατουντος δε του ιαθεντος χωλου τον πετρον και ιωαννην συνεδραμεν προς αυτους πας ο λαος επι τη στοα τη καλουμενη σολομωντος εκθαμβοι
Acts 3:11 And as the lame man which was healed held Peter and John, all the people ran together unto them in the porch that is called Solomon's, greatly wondering.
Acts 3:12 ιδων δε πετρος απεκρινατο προς τον λαον ανδρες ισραηλιται τι θαυμαζετε επι τουτω η ημιν τι ατενιζετε ως ιδια δυναμει η ευσεβεια πεποιηκοσιν του περιπατειν αυτον
Acts 3:12 And when Peter saw it, he answered unto the people, Ye men of Israel, why marvel ye at this? or why look ye so earnestly on us, as though by our own power or holiness we had made this man to walk?
Acts 3:13 ο θεος αβρααμ και ισαακ και ιακωβ ο θεος των πατερων ημων εδοξασεν τον παιδα αυτου ιησουν ον υμεις παρεδωκατε και ηρνησασθε αυτον κατα προσωπον πιλατου κριναντος εκεινου απολυειν
Acts 3:13 The God of Abraham, and of Isaac, and of Jacob, the God of our fathers, hath glorified his Son Jesus; whom ye delivered up, and denied him in the presence of Pilate, when he was determined to let him go.
Acts 3:14 υμεις δε τον αγιον και δικαιον ηρνησασθε και ητησασθε ανδρα φονεα χαρισθηναι υμιν
Acts 3:14 But ye denied the Holy One and the Just, and desired a murderer to be granted unto you;
Acts 3:15 τον δε αρχηγον της ζωης απεκτεινατε ον ο θεος ηγειρεν εκ νεκρων ου ημεις μαρτυρες εσμεν
Acts 3:15 And killed the Prince of life, whom God hath raised from the dead; whereof we are witnesses.
Acts 3:16 και επι τη πιστει του ονοματος αυτου τουτον ον θεωρειτε και οιδατε εστερεωσεν το ονομα αυτου και η πιστις η δι αυτου εδωκεν αυτω την ολοκληριαν ταυτην απεναντι παντων υμων
Acts 3:16 And his name through faith in his name hath made this man strong, whom ye see and know: yea, the faith which is by him hath given him this perfect soundness in the presence of you all.
Acts 3:17 και νυν αδελφοι οιδα οτι κατα αγνοιαν επραξατε ωσπερ και οι αρχοντες υμων
Acts 3:17 And now, brethren, I wot that through ignorance ye did it, as did also your rulers.
Acts 3:18 ο δε θεος α προκατηγγειλεν δια στοματος παντων των προφητων αυτου παθειν τον χριστον επληρωσεν ουτως
Acts 3:18 But those things, which God before had shewed by the mouth of all his prophets, that Christ should suffer, he hath so fulfilled.
Acts 3:19 μετανοησατε ουν και επιστρεψατε εις το εξαλειφθηναι υμων τας αμαρτιας οπως αν ελθωσιν καιροι αναψυξεως απο προσωπου του κυριου
Acts 3:19 Repent ye therefore, and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out, when the times of refreshing shall come from the presence of the Lord.
Acts 3:20 και αποστειλη τον προκεκηρυγμενον υμιν ιησουν χριστον
Acts 3:20 And he shall send Jesus Christ, which before was preached unto you:
Acts 3:21 ον δει ουρανον μεν δεξασθαι αχρι χρονων αποκαταστασεως παντων ων ελαλησεν ο θεος δια στοματος παντων αγιων αυτου προφητων απ αιωνος
Acts 3:21 Whom the heaven must receive until the times of restitution of all things, which God hath spoken by the mouth of all his holy prophets since the world began.
Acts 3:22 μωσης μεν γαρ προς τους πατερας ειπεν οτι προφητην υμιν αναστησει κυριος ο θεος υμων εκ των αδελφων υμων ως εμε αυτου ακουσεσθε κατα παντα οσα αν λαληση προς υμας
Acts 3:22 For Moses truly said unto the fathers, A prophet shall the Lord your God raise up unto you of your brethren, like unto me; him shall ye hear in all things whatsoever he shall say unto you.
Acts 3:23 εσται δε πασα ψυχη ητις αν μη ακουση του προφητου εκεινου εξολοθρευθησεται εκ του λαου
Acts 3:23 And it shall come to pass, that every soul, which will not hear that prophet, shall be destroyed from among the people.
Acts 3:24 και παντες δε οι προφηται απο σαμουηλ και των καθεξης οσοι ελαλησαν και προκατηγγειλαν τας ημερας ταυτας
Acts 3:24 Yea, and all the prophets from Samuel and those that follow after, as many as have spoken, have likewise foretold of these days.
Acts 3:25 υμεις εστε υιοι των προφητων και της διαθηκης ης διεθετο ο θεος προς τους πατερας ημων λεγων προς αβρααμ και τω σπερματι σου ενευλογηθησονται πασαι αι πατριαι της γης
Acts 3:25 Ye are the children of the prophets, and of the covenant which God made with our fathers, saying unto Abraham, And in thy seed shall all the kindreds of the earth be blessed.
Acts 3:26 υμιν πρωτον ο θεος αναστησας τον παιδα αυτου ιησουν απεστειλεν αυτον ευλογουντα υμας εν τω αποστρεφειν εκαστον απο των πονηριων υμων
Acts 3:26 Unto you first God, having raised up his Son Jesus, sent him to bless you, in turning away every one of you from his iniquities.
Acts 4:1 λαλουντων δε αυτων προς τον λαον επεστησαν αυτοις οι ιερεις και ο στρατηγος του ιερου και οι σαδδουκαιοι
Acts 4:1 And as they spake unto the people, the priests, and the captain of the temple, and the Sadducees, came upon them,
Acts 4:2 διαπονουμενοι δια το διδασκειν αυτους τον λαον και καταγγελλειν εν τω ιησου την αναστασιν την εκ νεκρων
Acts 4:2 Being grieved that they taught the people, and preached through Jesus the resurrection from the dead.
Acts 4:3 και επεβαλον αυτοις τας χειρας και εθεντο εις τηρησιν εις την αυριον ην γαρ εσπερα ηδη
Acts 4:3 And they laid hands on them, and put them in hold unto the next day: for it was now eventide.
Acts 4:4 πολλοι δε των ακουσαντων τον λογον επιστευσαν και εγενηθη ο αριθμος των ανδρων ωσει χιλιαδες πεντε
Acts 4:4 Howbeit many of them which heard the word believed; and the number of the men was about five thousand.
Acts 4:5 εγενετο δε επι την αυριον συναχθηναι αυτων τους αρχοντας και πρεσβυτερους και γραμματεις εις ιερουσαλημ
Acts 4:5 And it came to pass on the morrow, that their rulers, and elders, and scribes,
Acts 4:6 και ανναν τον αρχιερεα και καιαφαν και ιωαννην και αλεξανδρον και οσοι ησαν εκ γενους αρχιερατικου
Acts 4:6 And Annas the high priest, and Caiaphas, and John, and Alexander, and as many as were of the kindred of the high priest, were gathered together at Jerusalem.
Acts 4:7 και στησαντες αυτους εν τω μεσω επυνθανοντο εν ποια δυναμει η εν ποιω ονοματι εποιησατε τουτο υμεις
Acts 4:7 And when they had set them in the midst, they asked, By what power, or by what name, have ye done this?
Acts 4:8 τοτε πετρος πλησθεις πνευματος αγιου ειπεν προς αυτους αρχοντες του λαου και πρεσβυτεροι του ισραηλ
Acts 4:8 Then Peter, filled with the Holy Ghost, said unto them, Ye rulers of the people, and elders of Israel,
Acts 4:9 ει ημεις σημερον ανακρινομεθα επι ευεργεσια ανθρωπου ασθενους εν τινι ουτος σεσωσται
Acts 4:9 If we this day be examined of the good deed done to the impotent man, by what means he is made whole;
Acts 4:10 γνωστον εστω πασιν υμιν και παντι τω λαω ισραηλ οτι εν τω ονοματι ιησου χριστου του ναζωραιου ον υμεις εσταυρωσατε ον ο θεος ηγειρεν εκ νεκρων εν τουτω ουτος παρεστηκεν ενωπιον υμων υγιης
Acts 4:10 Be it known unto you all, and to all the people of Israel, that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom ye crucified, whom God raised from the dead, even by him doth this man stand here before you whole.
Acts 4:11 ουτος εστιν ο λιθος ο εξουθενηθεις υφ υμων των οικοδομουντων ο γενομενος εις κεφαλην γωνιας
Acts 4:11 This is the stone which was set at nought of you builders, which is become the head of the corner.
Acts 4:12 και ουκ εστιν εν αλλω ουδενι η σωτηρια ουτε γαρ ονομα εστιν ετερον υπο τον ουρανον το δεδομενον εν ανθρωποις εν ω δει σωθηναι ημας
Acts 4:12 Neither is there salvation in any other: for there is none other name under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved.
Acts 4:13 θεωρουντες δε την του πετρου παρρησιαν και ιωαννου και καταλαβομενοι οτι ανθρωποι αγραμματοι εισιν και ιδιωται εθαυμαζον επεγινωσκον τε αυτους οτι συν τω ιησου ησαν
Acts 4:13 Now when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, and perceived that they were unlearned and ignorant men, they marvelled; and they took knowledge of them, that they had been with Jesus.
Acts 4:14 τον δε ανθρωπον βλεποντες συν αυτοις εστωτα τον τεθεραπευμενον ουδεν ειχον αντειπειν
Acts 4:14 And beholding the man which was healed standing with them, they could say nothing against it.
Acts 4:15 κελευσαντες δε αυτους εξω του συνεδριου απελθειν συνεβαλον προς αλληλους
Acts 4:15 But when they had commanded them to go aside out of the council, they conferred among themselves,
Acts 4:16 λεγοντες τι ποιησομεν τοις ανθρωποις τουτοις οτι μεν γαρ γνωστον σημειον γεγονεν δι αυτων πασιν τοις κατοικουσιν ιερουσαλημ φανερον και ου δυναμεθα αρνησασθαι
Acts 4:16 Saying, What shall we do to these men? for that indeed a notable miracle hath been done by them is manifest to all them that dwell in Jerusalem; and we cannot deny it.
Acts 4:17 αλλ ινα μη επι πλειον διανεμηθη εις τον λαον απειλη απειλησωμεθα αυτοις μηκετι λαλειν επι τω ονοματι τουτω μηδενι ανθρωπων
Acts 4:17 But that it spread no further among the people, let us straitly threaten them, that they speak henceforth to no man in this name.
Acts 4:18 και καλεσαντες αυτους παρηγγειλαν αυτοις το καθολου μη φθεγγεσθαι μηδε διδασκειν επι τω ονοματι του ιησου
Acts 4:18 And they called them, and commanded them not to speak at all nor teach in the name of Jesus.
Acts 4:19 ο δε πετρος και ιωαννης αποκριθεντες προς αυτους ειπον ει δικαιον εστιν ενωπιον του θεου υμων ακουειν μαλλον η του θεου κρινατε
Acts 4:19 But Peter and John answered and said unto them, Whether it be right in the sight of God to hearken unto you more than unto God, judge ye.
Acts 4:20 ου δυναμεθα γαρ ημεις α ειδομεν και ηκουσαμεν μη λαλειν
Acts 4:20 For we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard.
Acts 4:21 οι δε προσαπειλησαμενοι απελυσαν αυτους μηδεν ευρισκοντες το πως κολασωνται αυτους δια τον λαον οτι παντες εδοξαζον τον θεον επι τω γεγονοτι
Acts 4:21 So when they had further threatened them, they let them go, finding nothing how they might punish them, because of the people: for all men glorified God for that which was done.
Acts 4:22 ετων γαρ ην πλειονων τεσσαρακοντα ο ανθρωπος εφ ον εγεγονει το σημειον τουτο της ιασεως
Acts 4:22 For the man was above forty years old, on whom this miracle of healing was shewed.
Acts 4:23 απολυθεντες δε ηλθον προς τους ιδιους και απηγγειλαν οσα προς αυτους οι αρχιερεις και οι πρεσβυτεροι ειπον
Acts 4:23 And being let go, they went to their own company, and reported all that the chief priests and elders had said unto them.
Acts 4:24 οι δε ακουσαντες ομοθυμαδον ηραν φωνην προς τον θεον και ειπον δεσποτα συ ο θεος ο ποιησας τον ουρανον και την γην και την θαλασσαν και παντα τα εν αυτοις
Acts 4:24 And when they heard that, they lifted up their voice to God with one accord, and said, Lord, thou art God, which hast made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and all that in them is:
Acts 4:25 ο δια στοματος δαβιδ του παιδος σου ειπων ινατι εφρυαξαν εθνη και λαοι εμελετησαν κενα
Acts 4:25 Who by the mouth of thy servant David hast said, Why did the heathen rage, and the people imagine vain things?
Acts 4:26 παρεστησαν οι βασιλεις της γης και οι αρχοντες συνηχθησαν επι το αυτο κατα του κυριου και κατα του χριστου αυτου
Acts 4:26 The kings of the earth stood up, and the rulers were gathered together against the Lord, and against his Christ.
Acts 4:27 συνηχθησαν γαρ επ αληθειας επι τον αγιον παιδα σου ιησουν ον εχρισας ηρωδης τε και ποντιος πιλατος συν εθνεσιν και λαοις ισραηλ
Acts 4:27 For of a truth against thy holy child Jesus, whom thou hast anointed, both Herod, and Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles, and the people of Israel, were gathered together,
Acts 4:28 ποιησαι οσα η χειρ σου και η βουλη σου προωρισεν γενεσθαι
Acts 4:28 For to do whatsoever thy hand and thy counsel determined before to be done.
Acts 4:29 και τα νυν κυριε επιδε επι τας απειλας αυτων και δος τοις δουλοις σου μετα παρρησιας πασης λαλειν τον λογον σου
Acts 4:29 And now, Lord, behold their threatenings: and grant unto thy servants, that with all boldness they may speak thy word,
Acts 4:30 εν τω την χειρα σου εκτεινειν σε εις ιασιν και σημεια και τερατα γινεσθαι δια του ονοματος του αγιου παιδος σου ιησου
Acts 4:30 By stretching forth thine hand to heal; and that signs and wonders may be done by the name of thy holy child Jesus.
Acts 4:31 και δεηθεντων αυτων εσαλευθη ο τοπος εν ω ησαν συνηγμενοι και επλησθησαν απαντες πνευματος αγιου και ελαλουν τον λογον του θεου μετα παρρησιας
Acts 4:31 And when they had prayed, the place was shaken where they were assembled together; and they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and they spake the word of God with boldness.
Acts 4:32 του δε πληθους των πιστευσαντων ην η καρδια και η ψυχη μια και ουδε εις τι των υπαρχοντων αυτω ελεγεν ιδιον ειναι αλλ ην αυτοις απαντα κοινα
Acts 4:32 And the multitude of them that believed were of one heart and of one soul: neither said any of them that ought of the things which he possessed was his own; but they had all things common.
Acts 4:33 και μεγαλη δυναμει απεδιδουν το μαρτυριον οι αποστολοι της αναστασεως του κυριου ιησου χαρις τε μεγαλη ην επι παντας αυτους
Acts 4:33 And with great power gave the apostles witness of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus: and great grace was upon them all.
Acts 4:34 ουδε γαρ ενδεης τις υπηρχεν εν αυτοις οσοι γαρ κτητορες χωριων η οικιων υπηρχον πωλουντες εφερον τας τιμας των πιπρασκομενων
Acts 4:34 Neither was there any among them that lacked: for as many as were possessors of lands or houses sold them, and brought the prices of the things that were sold,
Acts 4:35 και ετιθουν παρα τους ποδας των αποστολων διεδιδοτο δε εκαστω καθοτι αν τις χρειαν ειχεν
Acts 4:35 And laid them down at the apostles' feet: and distribution was made unto every man according as he had need.
Acts 4:36 ιωσης δε ο επικληθεις βαρναβας υπο των αποστολων ο εστιν μεθερμηνευομενον υιος παρακλησεως λευιτης κυπριος τω γενει
Acts 4:36 And Joses, who by the apostles was surnamed Barnabas, (which is, being interpreted, The son of consolation,) a Levite, and of the country of Cyprus,
Acts 4:37 υπαρχοντος αυτω αγρου πωλησας ηνεγκεν το χρημα και εθηκεν παρα τους ποδας των αποστολων
Acts 4:37 Having land, sold it, and brought the money, and laid it at the apostles' feet.
Acts 5:1 ανηρ δε τις ανανιας ονοματι συν σαπφειρη τη γυναικι αυτου επωλησεν κτημα
Acts 5:1 But a certain man named Ananias, with Sapphira his wife, sold a possession,
Acts 5:2 και ενοσφισατο απο της τιμης συνειδυιας και της γυναικος αυτου και ενεγκας μερος τι παρα τους ποδας των αποστολων εθηκεν
Acts 5:2 And kept back part of the price, his wife also being privy to it, and brought a certain part, and laid it at the apostles' feet.
Acts 5:3 ειπεν δε πετρος ανανια διατι επληρωσεν ο σατανας την καρδιαν σου ψευσασθαι σε το πνευμα το αγιον και νοσφισασθαι απο της τιμης του χωριου
Acts 5:3 But Peter said, Ananias, why hath Satan filled thine heart to lie to the Holy Ghost, and to keep back part of the price of the land?
Acts 5:4 ουχι μενον σοι εμενεν και πραθεν εν τη ση εξουσια υπηρχεν τι οτι εθου εν τη καρδια σου το πραγμα τουτο ουκ εψευσω ανθρωποις αλλα τω θεω
Acts 5:4 Whiles it remained, was it not thine own? and after it was sold, was it not in thine own power? why hast thou conceived this thing in thine heart? thou hast not lied unto men, but unto God.
Acts 5:5 ακουων δε ανανιας τους λογους τουτους πεσων εξεψυξεν και εγενετο φοβος μεγας επι παντας τους ακουοντας ταυτα
Acts 5:5 And Ananias hearing these words fell down, and gave up the ghost: and great fear came on all them that heard these things.
Acts 5:6 ανασταντες δε οι νεωτεροι συνεστειλαν αυτον και εξενεγκαντες εθαψαν
Acts 5:6 And the young men arose, wound him up, and carried him out, and buried him.
Acts 5:7 εγενετο δε ως ωρων τριων διαστημα και η γυνη αυτου μη ειδυια το γεγονος εισηλθεν
Acts 5:7 And it was about the space of three hours after, when his wife, not knowing what was done, came in.
Acts 5:8 απεκριθη δε αυτη ο πετρος ειπε μοι ει τοσουτου το χωριον απεδοσθε η δε ειπεν ναι τοσουτου
Acts 5:8 And Peter answered unto her, Tell me whether ye sold the land for so much? And she said, Yea, for so much.
Acts 5:9 ο δε πετρος ειπεν προς αυτην τι οτι συνεφωνηθη υμιν πειρασαι το πνευμα κυριου ιδου οι ποδες των θαψαντων τον ανδρα σου επι τη θυρα και εξοισουσιν σε
Acts 5:9 Then Peter said unto her, How is it that ye have agreed together to tempt the Spirit of the Lord? behold, the feet of them which have buried thy husband are at the door, and shall carry thee out.
Acts 5:10 επεσεν δε παραχρημα παρα τους ποδας αυτου και εξεψυξεν εισελθοντες δε οι νεανισκοι ευρον αυτην νεκραν και εξενεγκαντες εθαψαν προς τον ανδρα αυτης
Acts 5:10 Then fell she down straightway at his feet, and yielded up the ghost: and the young men came in, and found her dead, and, carrying her forth, buried her by her husband.
Acts 5:11 και εγενετο φοβος μεγας εφ ολην την εκκλησιαν και επι παντας τους ακουοντας ταυτα
Acts 5:11 And great fear came upon all the church, and upon as many as heard these things.
Acts 5:12 δια δε των χειρων των αποστολων εγενετο σημεια και τερατα εν τω λαω πολλα και ησαν ομοθυμαδον απαντες εν τη στοα σολομωντος
Acts 5:12 And by the hands of the apostles were many signs and wonders wrought among the people; (and they were all with one accord in Solomon's porch.
Acts 5:13 των δε λοιπων ουδεις ετολμα κολλασθαι αυτοις αλλ εμεγαλυνεν αυτους ο λαος
Acts 5:13 And of the rest durst no man join himself to them: but the people magnified them.
Acts 5:14 μαλλον δε προσετιθεντο πιστευοντες τω κυριω πληθη ανδρων τε και γυναικων
Acts 5:14 And believers were the more added to the Lord, multitudes both of men and women.)
Acts 5:15 ωστε κατα τας πλατειας εκφερειν τους ασθενεις και τιθεναι επι κλινων και κραββατων ινα ερχομενου πετρου καν η σκια επισκιαση τινι αυτων
Acts 5:15 Insomuch that they brought forth the sick into the streets, and laid them on beds and couches, that at the least the shadow of Peter passing by might overshadow some of them.
Acts 5:16 συνηρχετο δε και το πληθος των περιξ πολεων εις ιερουσαλημ φεροντες ασθενεις και οχλουμενους υπο πνευματων ακαθαρτων οιτινες εθεραπευοντο απαντες
Acts 5:16 There came also a multitude out of the cities round about unto Jerusalem, bringing sick folks, and them which were vexed with unclean spirits: and they were healed every one.
Acts 5:17 αναστας δε ο αρχιερευς και παντες οι συν αυτω η ουσα αιρεσις των σαδδουκαιων επλησθησαν ζηλου
Acts 5:17 Then the high priest rose up, and all they that were with him, (which is the sect of the Sadducees,) and were filled with indignation,
Acts 5:18 και επεβαλον τας χειρας αυτων επι τους αποστολους και εθεντο αυτους εν τηρησει δημοσια
Acts 5:18 And laid their hands on the apostles, and put them in the common prison.
Acts 5:19 αγγελος δε κυριου δια της νυκτος ηνοιξεν τας θυρας της φυλακης εξαγαγων τε αυτους ειπεν
Acts 5:19 But the angel of the Lord by night opened the prison doors, and brought them forth, and said,
Acts 5:20 πορευεσθε και σταθεντες λαλειτε εν τω ιερω τω λαω παντα τα ρηματα της ζωης ταυτης
Acts 5:20 Go, stand and speak in the temple to the people all the words of this life.
Acts 5:21 ακουσαντες δε εισηλθον υπο τον ορθρον εις το ιερον και εδιδασκον παραγενομενος δε ο αρχιερευς και οι συν αυτω συνεκαλεσαν το συνεδριον και πασαν την γερουσιαν των υιων ισραηλ και απεστειλαν εις το δεσμωτηριον αχθηναι αυτους
Acts 5:21 And when they heard that, they entered into the temple early in the morning, and taught. But the high priest came, and they that were with him, and called the council together, and all the senate of the children of Israel, and sent to the prison to have them brought.
Acts 5:22 οι δε υπηρεται παραγενομενοι ουχ ευρον αυτους εν τη φυλακη αναστρεψαντες δε απηγγειλαν
Acts 5:22 But when the officers came, and found them not in the prison, they returned and told,
Acts 5:23 λεγοντες οτι το μεν δεσμωτηριον ευρομεν κεκλεισμενον εν παση ασφαλεια και τους φυλακας εξω εστωτας προ των θυρων ανοιξαντες δε εσω ουδενα ευρομεν
Acts 5:23 Saying, The prison truly found we shut with all safety, and the keepers standing without before the doors: but when we had opened, we found no man within.
Acts 5:24 ως δε ηκουσαν τους λογους τουτους ο τε ιερευς και ο στρατηγος του ιερου και οι αρχιερεις διηπορουν περι αυτων τι αν γενοιτο τουτο
Acts 5:24 Now when the high priest and the captain of the temple and the chief priests heard these things, they doubted of them whereunto this would grow.
Acts 5:25 παραγενομενος δε τις απηγγειλεν αυτοις λεγων οτι ιδου οι ανδρες ους εθεσθε εν τη φυλακη εισιν εν τω ιερω εστωτες και διδασκοντες τον λαον
Acts 5:25 Then came one and told them, saying, Behold, the men whom ye put in prison are standing in the temple, and teaching the people.
Acts 5:26 τοτε απελθων ο στρατηγος συν τοις υπηρεταις ηγαγεν αυτους ου μετα βιας εφοβουντο γαρ τον λαον ινα μη λιθασθωσιν
Acts 5:26 Then went the captain with the officers, and brought them without violence: for they feared the people, lest they should have been stoned.
Acts 5:27 αγαγοντες δε αυτους εστησαν εν τω συνεδριω και επηρωτησεν αυτους ο αρχιερευς
Acts 5:27 And when they had brought them, they set them before the council: and the high priest asked them,
Acts 5:28 λεγων ου παραγγελια παρηγγειλαμεν υμιν μη διδασκειν επι τω ονοματι τουτω και ιδου πεπληρωκατε την ιερουσαλημ της διδαχης υμων και βουλεσθε επαγαγειν εφ ημας το αιμα του ανθρωπου τουτου
Acts 5:28 Saying, Did not we straitly command you that ye should not teach in this name? and, behold, ye have filled Jerusalem with your doctrine, and intend to bring this man's blood upon us.
Acts 5:29 αποκριθεις δε ο πετρος και οι αποστολοι ειπον πειθαρχειν δει θεω μαλλον η ανθρωποις
Acts 5:29 Then Peter and the other apostles answered and said, We ought to obey God rather than men.
Acts 5:30 ο θεος των πατερων ημων ηγειρεν ιησουν ον υμεις διεχειρισασθε κρεμασαντες επι ξυλου
Acts 5:30 The God of our fathers raised up Jesus, whom ye slew and hanged on a tree.
Acts 5:31 τουτον ο θεος αρχηγον και σωτηρα υψωσεν τη δεξια αυτου δουναι μετανοιαν τω ισραηλ και αφεσιν αμαρτιων
Acts 5:31 Him hath God exalted with his right hand to be a Prince and a Saviour, for to give repentance to Israel, and forgiveness of sins.
Acts 5:32 και ημεις εσμεν αυτου μαρτυρες των ρηματων τουτων και το πνευμα δε το αγιον ο εδωκεν ο θεος τοις πειθαρχουσιν αυτω
Acts 5:32 And we are his witnesses of these things; and so is also the Holy Ghost, whom God hath given to them that obey him.
Acts 5:33 οι δε ακουσαντες διεπριοντο και εβουλευοντο ανελειν αυτους
Acts 5:33 When they heard that, they were cut to the heart, and took counsel to slay them.
Acts 5:34 αναστας δε τις εν τω συνεδριω φαρισαιος ονοματι γαμαλιηλ νομοδιδασκαλος τιμιος παντι τω λαω εκελευσεν εξω βραχυ τι τους αποστολους ποιησαι
Acts 5:34 Then stood there up one in the council, a Pharisee, named Gamaliel, a doctor of the law, had in reputation among all the people, and commanded to put the apostles forth a little space;
Acts 5:35 ειπεν τε προς αυτους ανδρες ισραηλιται προσεχετε εαυτοις επι τοις ανθρωποις τουτοις τι μελλετε πρασσειν
Acts 5:35 And said unto them, Ye men of Israel, take heed to yourselves what ye intend to do as touching these men.
Acts 5:36 προ γαρ τουτων των ημερων ανεστη θευδας λεγων ειναι τινα εαυτον ω προσεκολληθη αριθμος ανδρων ωσει τετρακοσιων ος ανηρεθη και παντες οσοι επειθοντο αυτω διελυθησαν και εγενοντο εις ουδεν
Acts 5:36 For before these days rose up Theudas, boasting himself to be somebody; to whom a number of men, about four hundred, joined themselves: who was slain; and all, as many as obeyed him, were scattered, and brought to nought.
Acts 5:37 μετα τουτον ανεστη ιουδας ο γαλιλαιος εν ταις ημεραις της απογραφης και απεστησεν λαον ικανον οπισω αυτου κακεινος απωλετο και παντες οσοι επειθοντο αυτω διεσκορπισθησαν
Acts 5:37 After this man rose up Judas of Galilee in the days of the taxing, and drew away much people after him: he also perished; and all, even as many as obeyed him, were dispersed.
Acts 5:38 και τα νυν λεγω υμιν αποστητε απο των ανθρωπων τουτων και εασατε αυτους οτι εαν η εξ ανθρωπων η βουλη αυτη η το εργον τουτο καταλυθησεται
Acts 5:38 And now I say unto you, Refrain from these men, and let them alone: for if this counsel or this work be of men, it will come to nought:
Acts 5:39 ει δε εκ θεου εστιν ου δυνασθε καταλυσαι αυτο μηποτε και θεομαχοι ευρεθητε
Acts 5:39 But if it be of God, ye cannot overthrow it; lest haply ye be found even to fight against God.
Acts 5:40 επεισθησαν δε αυτω και προσκαλεσαμενοι τους αποστολους δειραντες παρηγγειλαν μη λαλειν επι τω ονοματι του ιησου και απελυσαν αυτους
Acts 5:40 And to him they agreed: and when they had called the apostles, and beaten them, they commanded that they should not speak in the name of Jesus, and let them go.
Acts 5:41 οι μεν ουν επορευοντο χαιροντες απο προσωπου του συνεδριου οτι υπερ του ονοματος αυτου κατηξιωθησαν ατιμασθηναι
Acts 5:41 And they departed from the presence of the council, rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer shame for his name.
Acts 5:42 πασαν τε ημεραν εν τω ιερω και κατ οικον ουκ επαυοντο διδασκοντες και ευαγγελιζομενοι ιησουν τον χριστον
Acts 5:42 And daily in the temple, and in every house, they ceased not to teach and preach Jesus Christ.
Acts 6:1 εν δε ταις ημεραις ταυταις πληθυνοντων των μαθητων εγενετο γογγυσμος των ελληνιστων προς τους εβραιους οτι παρεθεωρουντο εν τη διακονια τη καθημερινη αι χηραι αυτων
Acts 6:1 And in those days, when the number of the disciples was multiplied, there arose a murmuring of the Grecians against the Hebrews, because their widows were neglected in the daily ministration.
Acts 6:2 προσκαλεσαμενοι δε οι δωδεκα το πληθος των μαθητων ειπον ουκ αρεστον εστιν ημας καταλειψαντας τον λογον του θεου διακονειν τραπεζαις
Acts 6:2 Then the twelve called the multitude of the disciples unto them, and said, It is not reason that we should leave the word of God, and serve tables.
Acts 6:3 επισκεψασθε ουν αδελφοι ανδρας εξ υμων μαρτυρουμενους επτα πληρεις πνευματος αγιου και σοφιας ους καταστησομεν επι της χρειας ταυτης
Acts 6:3 Wherefore, brethren, look ye out among you seven men of honest report, full of the Holy Ghost and wisdom, whom we may appoint over this business.
Acts 6:4 ημεις δε τη προσευχη και τη διακονια του λογου προσκαρτερησομεν
Acts 6:4 But we will give ourselves continually to prayer, and to the ministry of the word.
Acts 6:5 και ηρεσεν ο λογος ενωπιον παντος του πληθους και εξελεξαντο στεφανον ανδρα πληρη πιστεως και πνευματος αγιου και φιλιππον και προχορον και νικανορα και τιμωνα και παρμεναν και νικολαον προσηλυτον αντιοχεα
Acts 6:5 And the saying pleased the whole multitude: and they chose Stephen, a man full of faith and of the Holy Ghost, and Philip, and Prochorus, and Nicanor, and Timon, and Parmenas, and Nicolas a proselyte of Antioch:
Acts 6:6 ους εστησαν ενωπιον των αποστολων και προσευξαμενοι επεθηκαν αυτοις τας χειρας
Acts 6:6 Whom they set before the apostles: and when they had prayed, they laid their hands on them.
Acts 6:7 και ο λογος του θεου ηυξανεν και επληθυνετο ο αριθμος των μαθητων εν ιερουσαλημ σφοδρα πολυς τε οχλος των ιερεων υπηκουον τη πιστει
Acts 6:7 And the word of God increased; and the number of the disciples multiplied in Jerusalem greatly; and a great company of the priests were obedient to the faith.
Acts 6:8 στεφανος δε πληρης πιστεως και δυναμεως εποιει τερατα και σημεια μεγαλα εν τω λαω
Acts 6:8 And Stephen, full of faith and power, did great wonders and miracles among the people.
Acts 6:9 ανεστησαν δε τινες των εκ της συναγωγης της λεγομενης λιβερτινων και κυρηναιων και αλεξανδρεων και των απο κιλικιας και ασιας συζητουντες τω στεφανω
Acts 6:9 Then there arose certain of the synagogue, which is called the synagogue of the Libertines, and Cyrenians, and Alexandrians, and of them of Cilicia and of Asia, disputing with Stephen.
Acts 6:10 και ουκ ισχυον αντιστηναι τη σοφια και τω πνευματι ω ελαλει
Acts 6:10 And they were not able to resist the wisdom and the spirit by which he spake.
Acts 6:11 τοτε υπεβαλον ανδρας λεγοντας οτι ακηκοαμεν αυτου λαλουντος ρηματα βλασφημα εις μωσην και τον θεον
Acts 6:11 Then they suborned men, which said, We have heard him speak blasphemous words against Moses, and against God.
Acts 6:12 συνεκινησαν τε τον λαον και τους πρεσβυτερους και τους γραμματεις και επισταντες συνηρπασαν αυτον και ηγαγον εις το συνεδριον
Acts 6:12 And they stirred up the people, and the elders, and the scribes, and came upon him, and caught him, and brought him to the council,
Acts 6:13 εστησαν τε μαρτυρας ψευδεις λεγοντας ο ανθρωπος ουτος ου παυεται ρηματα βλασφημα λαλων κατα του τοπου του αγιου τουτου και του νομου
Acts 6:13 And set up false witnesses, which said, This man ceaseth not to speak blasphemous words against this holy place, and the law:
Acts 6:14 ακηκοαμεν γαρ αυτου λεγοντος οτι ιησους ο ναζωραιος ουτος καταλυσει τον τοπον τουτον και αλλαξει τα εθη α παρεδωκεν ημιν μωυσης
Acts 6:14 For we have heard him say, that this Jesus of Nazareth shall destroy this place, and shall change the customs which Moses delivered us.
Acts 6:15 και ατενισαντες εις αυτον απαντες οι καθεζομενοι εν τω συνεδριω ειδον το προσωπον αυτου ωσει προσωπον αγγελου
Acts 6:15 And all that sat in the council, looking stedfastly on him, saw his face as it had been the face of an angel.
Acts 7:1 ειπεν δε ο αρχιερευς ει αρα ταυτα ουτως εχει
Acts 7:1 Then said the high priest, Are these things so?
Acts 7:2 ο δε εφη ανδρες αδελφοι και πατερες ακουσατε ο θεος της δοξης ωφθη τω πατρι ημων αβρααμ οντι εν τη μεσοποταμια πριν η κατοικησαι αυτον εν χαρραν
Acts 7:2 And he said, Men, brethren, and fathers, hearken; The God of glory appeared unto our father Abraham, when he was in Mesopotamia, before he dwelt in Charran,
Acts 7:3 και ειπεν προς αυτον εξελθε εκ της γης σου και εκ της συγγενειας σου και δευρο εις γην ην αν σοι δειξω
Acts 7:3 And said unto him, Get thee out of thy country, and from thy kindred, and come into the land which I shall shew thee.
Acts 7:4 τοτε εξελθων εκ γης χαλδαιων κατωκησεν εν χαρραν κακειθεν μετα το αποθανειν τον πατερα αυτου μετωκισεν αυτον εις την γην ταυτην εις ην υμεις νυν κατοικειτε
Acts 7:4 Then came he out of the land of the Chaldaeans, and dwelt in Charran: and from thence, when his father was dead, he removed him into this land, wherein ye now dwell.
Acts 7:5 και ουκ εδωκεν αυτω κληρονομιαν εν αυτη ουδε βημα ποδος και επηγγειλατο αυτω δουναι εις κατασχεσιν αυτην και τω σπερματι αυτου μετ αυτον ουκ οντος αυτω τεκνου
Acts 7:5 And he gave him none inheritance in it, no, not so much as to set his foot on: yet he promised that he would give it to him for a possession, and to his seed after him, when as yet he had no child.
Acts 7:6 ελαλησεν δε ουτως ο θεος οτι εσται το σπερμα αυτου παροικον εν γη αλλοτρια και δουλωσουσιν αυτο και κακωσουσιν ετη τετρακοσια
Acts 7:6 And God spake on this wise, That his seed should sojourn in a strange land; and that they should bring them into bondage, and entreat them evil four hundred years.
Acts 7:7 και το εθνος ω εαν δουλευσωσιν κρινω εγω ειπεν ο θεος και μετα ταυτα εξελευσονται και λατρευσουσιν μοι εν τω τοπω τουτω
Acts 7:7 And the nation to whom they shall be in bondage will I judge, said God: and after that shall they come forth, and serve me in this place.
Acts 7:8 και εδωκεν αυτω διαθηκην περιτομης και ουτως εγεννησεν τον ισαακ και περιετεμεν αυτον τη ημερα τη ογδοη και ο ισαακ τον ιακωβ και ο ιακωβ τους δωδεκα πατριαρχας
Acts 7:8 And he gave him the covenant of circumcision: and so Abraham begat Isaac, and circumcised him the eighth day; and Isaac begat Jacob; and Jacob begat the twelve patriarchs.
Acts 7:9 και οι πατριαρχαι ζηλωσαντες τον ιωσηφ απεδοντο εις αιγυπτον και ην ο θεος μετ αυτου
Acts 7:9 And the patriarchs, moved with envy, sold Joseph into Egypt: but God was with him,
Acts 7:10 και εξειλετο αυτον εκ πασων των θλιψεων αυτου και εδωκεν αυτω χαριν και σοφιαν εναντιον φαραω βασιλεως αιγυπτου και κατεστησεν αυτον ηγουμενον επ αιγυπτον και ολον τον οικον αυτου
Acts 7:10 And delivered him out of all his afflictions, and gave him favour and wisdom in the sight of Pharaoh king of Egypt; and he made him governor over Egypt and all his house.
Acts 7:11 ηλθεν δε λιμος εφ ολην την γην αιγυπτου και χανααν και θλιψις μεγαλη και ουχ ευρισκον χορτασματα οι πατερες ημων
Acts 7:11 Now there came a dearth over all the land of Egypt and Chanaan, and great affliction: and our fathers found no sustenance.
Acts 7:12 ακουσας δε ιακωβ οντα σιτα εν αιγυπτω εξαπεστειλεν τους πατερας ημων πρωτον
Acts 7:12 But when Jacob heard that there was corn in Egypt, he sent out our fathers first.
Acts 7:13 και εν τω δευτερω ανεγνωρισθη ιωσηφ τοις αδελφοις αυτου και φανερον εγενετο τω φαραω το γενος του ιωσηφ
Acts 7:13 And at the second time Joseph was made known to his brethren; and Joseph's kindred was made known unto Pharaoh.
Acts 7:14 αποστειλας δε ιωσηφ μετεκαλεσατο τον πατερα αυτου ιακωβ και πασαν την συγγενειαν αυτου εν ψυχαις εβδομηκοντα πεντε
Acts 7:14 Then sent Joseph, and called his father Jacob to him, and all his kindred, threescore and fifteen souls.
Acts 7:15 κατεβη δε ιακωβ εις αιγυπτον και ετελευτησεν αυτος και οι πατερες ημων
Acts 7:15 So Jacob went down into Egypt, and died, he, and our fathers,
Acts 7:16 και μετετεθησαν εις συχεμ και ετεθησαν εν τω μνηματι ο ωνησατο αβρααμ τιμης αργυριου παρα των υιων εμμορ του συχεμ
Acts 7:16 And were carried over into Sychem, and laid in the sepulchre that Abraham bought for a sum of money of the sons of Emmor the father of Sychem.
Acts 7:17 καθως δε ηγγιζεν ο χρονος της επαγγελιας ης ωμοσεν ο θεος τω αβρααμ ηυξησεν ο λαος και επληθυνθη εν αιγυπτω
Acts 7:17 But when the time of the promise drew nigh, which God had sworn to Abraham, the people grew and multiplied in Egypt,
Acts 7:18 αχρις ου ανεστη βασιλευς ετερος ος ουκ ηδει τον ιωσηφ
Acts 7:18 Till another king arose, which knew not Joseph.
Acts 7:19 ουτος κατασοφισαμενος το γενος ημων εκακωσεν τους πατερας ημων του ποιειν εκθετα τα βρεφη αυτων εις το μη ζωογονεισθαι
Acts 7:19 The same dealt subtilly with our kindred, and evil entreated our fathers, so that they cast out their young children, to the end they might not live.
Acts 7:20 εν ω καιρω εγεννηθη μωσης και ην αστειος τω θεω ος ανετραφη μηνας τρεις εν τω οικω του πατρος αυτου
Acts 7:20 In which time Moses was born, and was exceeding fair, and nourished up in his father's house three months:
Acts 7:21 εκτεθεντα δε αυτον ανειλετο αυτον η θυγατηρ φαραω και ανεθρεψατο αυτον εαυτη εις υιον
Acts 7:21 And when he was cast out, Pharaoh's daughter took him up, and nourished him for her own son.
Acts 7:22 και επαιδευθη μωσης παση σοφια αιγυπτιων ην δε δυνατος εν λογοις και εν εργοις
Acts 7:22 And Moses was learned in all the wisdom of the Egyptians, and was mighty in words and in deeds.
Acts 7:23 ως δε επληρουτο αυτω τεσσαρακονταετης χρονος ανεβη επι την καρδιαν αυτου επισκεψασθαι τους αδελφους αυτου τους υιους ισραηλ
Acts 7:23 And when he was full forty years old, it came into his heart to visit his brethren the children of Israel.
Acts 7:24 και ιδων τινα αδικουμενον ημυνατο και εποιησεν εκδικησιν τω καταπονουμενω παταξας τον αιγυπτιον
Acts 7:24 And seeing one of them suffer wrong, he defended him, and avenged him that was oppressed, and smote the Egyptian:
Acts 7:25 ενομιζεν δε συνιεναι τους αδελφους αυτου οτι ο θεος δια χειρος αυτου διδωσιν αυτοις σωτηριαν οι δε ου συνηκαν
Acts 7:25 For he supposed his brethren would have understood how that God by his hand would deliver them: but they understood not.
Acts 7:26 τη τε επιουση ημερα ωφθη αυτοις μαχομενοις και συνηλασεν αυτους εις ειρηνην ειπων ανδρες αδελφοι εστε υμεις ινατι αδικειτε αλληλους
Acts 7:26 And the next day he shewed himself unto them as they strove, and would have set them at one again, saying, Sirs, ye are brethren; why do ye wrong one to another?
Acts 7:27 ο δε αδικων τον πλησιον απωσατο αυτον ειπων τις σε κατεστησεν αρχοντα και δικαστην εφ ημας
Acts 7:27 But he that did his neighbour wrong thrust him away, saying, Who made thee a ruler and a judge over us?
Acts 7:28 μη ανελειν με συ θελεις ον τροπον ανειλες χθες τον αιγυπτιον
Acts 7:28 Wilt thou kill me, as thou diddest the Egyptian yesterday?
Acts 7:29 εφυγεν δε μωσης εν τω λογω τουτω και εγενετο παροικος εν γη μαδιαμ ου εγεννησεν υιους δυο
Acts 7:29 Then fled Moses at this saying, and was a stranger in the land of Madian, where he begat two sons.
Acts 7:30 και πληρωθεντων ετων τεσσαρακοντα ωφθη αυτω εν τη ερημω του ορους σινα αγγελος κυριου εν φλογι πυρος βατου
Acts 7:30 And when forty years were expired, there appeared to him in the wilderness of mount Sina an angel of the Lord in a flame of fire in a bush.
Acts 7:31 ο δε μωσης ιδων εθαυμασεν το οραμα προσερχομενου δε αυτου κατανοησαι εγενετο φωνη κυριου προς αυτον
Acts 7:31 When Moses saw it, he wondered at the sight: and as he drew near to behold it, the voice of the LORD came unto him,
Acts 7:32 εγω ο θεος των πατερων σου ο θεος αβρααμ και ο θεος ισαακ και ο θεος ιακωβ εντρομος δε γενομενος μωσης ουκ ετολμα κατανοησαι
Acts 7:32 Saying, I am the God of thy fathers, the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. Then Moses trembled, and durst not behold.
Acts 7:33 ειπεν δε αυτω ο κυριος λυσον το υποδημα των ποδων σου ο γαρ τοπος εν ω εστηκας γη αγια εστιν
Acts 7:33 Then said the Lord to him, Put off thy shoes from thy feet: for the place where thou standest is holy ground.
Acts 7:34 ιδων ειδον την κακωσιν του λαου μου του εν αιγυπτω και του στεναγμου αυτων ηκουσα και κατεβην εξελεσθαι αυτους και νυν δευρο αποστελω σε εις αιγυπτον
Acts 7:34 I have seen, I have seen the affliction of my people which is in Egypt, and I have heard their groaning, and am come down to deliver them. And now come, I will send thee into Egypt.
Acts 7:35 τουτον τον μωυσην ον ηρνησαντο ειποντες τις σε κατεστησεν αρχοντα και δικαστην τουτον ο θεος αρχοντα και λυτρωτην απεστειλεν εν χειρι αγγελου του οφθεντος αυτω εν τη βατω
Acts 7:35 This Moses whom they refused, saying, Who made thee a ruler and a judge? the same did God send to be a ruler and a deliverer by the hand of the angel which appeared to him in the bush.
Acts 7:36 ουτος εξηγαγεν αυτους ποιησας τερατα και σημεια εν γη αιγυπτου και εν ερυθρα θαλασση και εν τη ερημω ετη τεσσαρακοντα
Acts 7:36 He brought them out, after that he had shewed wonders and signs in the land of Egypt, and in the Red sea, and in the wilderness forty years.
Acts 7:37 ουτος εστιν ο μωυσης ο ειπων τοις υιοις ισραηλ προφητην υμιν αναστησει κυριος ο θεος υμων εκ των αδελφων υμων ως εμε αυτου ακουσεσθε
Acts 7:37 This is that Moses, which said unto the children of Israel, A prophet shall the Lord your God raise up unto you of your brethren, like unto me; him shall ye hear.
Acts 7:38 ουτος εστιν ο γενομενος εν τη εκκλησια εν τη ερημω μετα του αγγελου του λαλουντος αυτω εν τω ορει σινα και των πατερων ημων ος εδεξατο λογια ζωντα δουναι ημιν
Acts 7:38 This is he, that was in the church in the wilderness with the angel which spake to him in the mount Sina, and with our fathers: who received the lively oracles to give unto us:
Acts 7:39 ω ουκ ηθελησαν υπηκοοι γενεσθαι οι πατερες ημων αλλ απωσαντο και εστραφησαν ταις καρδιαις αυτων εις αιγυπτον
Acts 7:39 To whom our fathers would not obey, but thrust him from them, and in their hearts turned back again into Egypt,
Acts 7:40 ειποντες τω ααρων ποιησον ημιν θεους οι προπορευσονται ημων ο γαρ μωσης ουτος ος εξηγαγεν ημας εκ γης αιγυπτου ουκ οιδαμεν τι γεγονεν αυτω
Acts 7:40 Saying unto Aaron, Make us gods to go before us: for as for this Moses, which brought us out of the land of Egypt, we wot not what is become of him.
Acts 7:41 και εμοσχοποιησαν εν ταις ημεραις εκειναις και ανηγαγον θυσιαν τω ειδωλω και ευφραινοντο εν τοις εργοις των χειρων αυτων
Acts 7:41 And they made a calf in those days, and offered sacrifice unto the idol, and rejoiced in the works of their own hands.
Acts 7:42 εστρεψεν δε ο θεος και παρεδωκεν αυτους λατρευειν τη στρατια του ουρανου καθως γεγραπται εν βιβλω των προφητων μη σφαγια και θυσιας προσηνεγκατε μοι ετη τεσσαρακοντα εν τη ερημω οικος ισραηλ
Acts 7:42 Then God turned, and gave them up to worship the host of heaven; as it is written in the book of the prophets, O ye house of Israel, have ye offered to me slain beasts and sacrifices by the space of forty years in the wilderness?
Acts 7:43 και ανελαβετε την σκηνην του μολοχ και το αστρον του θεου υμων ρεμφαν τους τυπους ους εποιησατε προσκυνειν αυτοις και μετοικιω υμας επεκεινα βαβυλωνος
Acts 7:43 Yea, ye took up the tabernacle of Moloch, and the star of your god Remphan, figures which ye made to worship them: and I will carry you away beyond Babylon.
Acts 7:44 η σκηνη του μαρτυριου ην εν τοις πατρασιν ημων εν τη ερημω καθως διεταξατο ο λαλων τω μωση ποιησαι αυτην κατα τον τυπον ον εωρακει
Acts 7:44 Our fathers had the tabernacle of witness in the wilderness, as he had appointed, speaking unto Moses, that he should make it according to the fashion that he had seen.
Acts 7:45 ην και εισηγαγον διαδεξαμενοι οι πατερες ημων μετα ιησου εν τη κατασχεσει των εθνων ων εξωσεν ο θεος απο προσωπου των πατερων ημων εως των ημερων δαβιδ
Acts 7:45 Which also our fathers that came after brought in with Jesus into the possession of the Gentiles, whom God drave out before the face of our fathers, unto the days of David;
Acts 7:46 ος ευρεν χαριν ενωπιον του θεου και ητησατο ευρειν σκηνωμα τω θεω ιακωβ
Acts 7:46 Who found favour before God, and desired to find a tabernacle for the God of Jacob.
Acts 7:47 σολομων δε ωκοδομησεν αυτω οικον
Acts 7:47 But Solomon built him an house.
Acts 7:48 αλλ ουχ ο υψιστος εν χειροποιητοις ναοις κατοικει καθως ο προφητης λεγει
Acts 7:48 Howbeit the most High dwelleth not in temples made with hands; as saith the prophet,
Acts 7:49 ο ουρανος μοι θρονος η δε γη υποποδιον των ποδων μου ποιον οικον οικοδομησετε μοι λεγει κυριος η τις τοπος της καταπαυσεως μου
Acts 7:49 Heaven is my throne, and earth is my footstool: what house will ye build me? saith the Lord: or what is the place of my rest?
Acts 7:50 ουχι η χειρ μου εποιησεν ταυτα παντα
Acts 7:50 Hath not my hand made all these things?
Acts 7:51 σκληροτραχηλοι και απεριτμητοι τη καρδια και τοις ωσιν υμεις αει τω πνευματι τω αγιω αντιπιπτετε ως οι πατερες υμων και υμεις
Acts 7:51 Ye stiffnecked and uncircumcised in heart and ears, ye do always resist the Holy Ghost: as your fathers did, so do ye.
Acts 7:52 τινα των προφητων ουκ εδιωξαν οι πατερες υμων και απεκτειναν τους προκαταγγειλαντας περι της ελευσεως του δικαιου ου νυν υμεις προδοται και φονεις γεγενησθε
Acts 7:52 Which of the prophets have not your fathers persecuted? and they have slain them which shewed before of the coming of the Just One; of whom ye have been now the betrayers and murderers:
Acts 7:53 οιτινες ελαβετε τον νομον εις διαταγας αγγελων και ουκ εφυλαξατε
Acts 7:53 Who have received the law by the disposition of angels, and have not kept it.
Acts 7:54 ακουοντες δε ταυτα διεπριοντο ταις καρδιαις αυτων και εβρυχον τους οδοντας επ αυτον
Acts 7:54 When they heard these things, they were cut to the heart, and they gnashed on him with their teeth.
Acts 7:55 υπαρχων δε πληρης πνευματος αγιου ατενισας εις τον ουρανον ειδεν δοξαν θεου και ιησουν εστωτα εκ δεξιων του θεου
Acts 7:55 But he, being full of the Holy Ghost, looked up stedfastly into heaven, and saw the glory of God, and Jesus standing on the right hand of God,
Acts 7:56 και ειπεν ιδου θεωρω τους ουρανους ανεωγμενους και τον υιον του ανθρωπου εκ δεξιων εστωτα του θεου
Acts 7:56 And said, Behold, I see the heavens opened, and the Son of man standing on the right hand of God.
Acts 7:57 κραξαντες δε φωνη μεγαλη συνεσχον τα ωτα αυτων και ωρμησαν ομοθυμαδον επ αυτον
Acts 7:57 Then they cried out with a loud voice, and stopped their ears, and ran upon him with one accord,
Acts 7:58 και εκβαλοντες εξω της πολεως ελιθοβολουν και οι μαρτυρες απεθεντο τα ιματια αυτων παρα τους ποδας νεανιου καλουμενου σαυλου
Acts 7:58 And cast him out of the city, and stoned him: and the witnesses laid down their clothes at a young man's feet, whose name was Saul.
Acts 7:59 και ελιθοβολουν τον στεφανον επικαλουμενον και λεγοντα κυριε ιησου δεξαι το πνευμα μου
Acts 7:59 And they stoned Stephen, calling upon God, and saying, Lord Jesus, receive my spirit.
Acts 7:60 θεις δε τα γονατα εκραξεν φωνη μεγαλη κυριε μη στησης αυτοις την αμαρτιαν ταυτην και τουτο ειπων εκοιμηθη
Acts 7:60 And he kneeled down, and cried with a loud voice, Lord, lay not this sin to their charge. And when he had said this, he fell asleep.
Acts 8:1 σαυλος δε ην συνευδοκων τη αναιρεσει αυτου εγενετο δε εν εκεινη τη ημερα διωγμος μεγας επι την εκκλησιαν την εν ιεροσολυμοις παντες τε διεσπαρησαν κατα τας χωρας της ιουδαιας και σαμαρειας πλην των αποστολων
Acts 8:1 And Saul was consenting unto his death. And at that time there was a great persecution against the church which was at Jerusalem; and they were all scattered abroad throughout the regions of Judaea and Samaria, except the apostles.
Acts 8:2 συνεκομισαν δε τον στεφανον ανδρες ευλαβεις και εποιησαντο κοπετον μεγαν επ αυτω
Acts 8:2 And devout men carried Stephen to his burial, and made great lamentation over him.
Acts 8:3 σαυλος δε ελυμαινετο την εκκλησιαν κατα τους οικους εισπορευομενος συρων τε ανδρας και γυναικας παρεδιδου εις φυλακην
Acts 8:3 As for Saul, he made havock of the church, entering into every house, and haling men and women committed them to prison.
Acts 8:4 οι μεν ουν διασπαρεντες διηλθον ευαγγελιζομενοι τον λογον
Acts 8:4 Therefore they that were scattered abroad went every where preaching the word.
Acts 8:5 φιλιππος δε κατελθων εις πολιν της σαμαρειας εκηρυσσεν αυτοις τον χριστον
Acts 8:5 Then Philip went down to the city of Samaria, and preached Christ unto them.
Acts 8:6 προσειχον τε οι οχλοι τοις λεγομενοις υπο του φιλιππου ομοθυμαδον εν τω ακουειν αυτους και βλεπειν τα σημεια α εποιει
Acts 8:6 And the people with one accord gave heed unto those things which Philip spake, hearing and seeing the miracles which he did.
Acts 8:7 πολλων γαρ των εχοντων πνευματα ακαθαρτα βοωντα μεγαλη φωνη εξηρχετο πολλοι δε παραλελυμενοι και χωλοι εθεραπευθησαν
Acts 8:7 For unclean spirits, crying with loud voice, came out of many that were possessed with them: and many taken with palsies, and that were lame, were healed.
Acts 8:8 και εγενετο χαρα μεγαλη εν τη πολει εκεινη
Acts 8:8 And there was great joy in that city.
Acts 8:9 ανηρ δε τις ονοματι σιμων προυπηρχεν εν τη πολει μαγευων και εξιστων το εθνος της σαμαρειας λεγων ειναι τινα εαυτον μεγαν
Acts 8:9 But there was a certain man, called Simon, which beforetime in the same city used sorcery, and bewitched the people of Samaria, giving out that himself was some great one:
Acts 8:10 ω προσειχον παντες απο μικρου εως μεγαλου λεγοντες ουτος εστιν η δυναμις του θεου η μεγαλη
Acts 8:10 To whom they all gave heed, from the least to the greatest, saying, This man is the great power of God.
Acts 8:11 προσειχον δε αυτω δια το ικανω χρονω ταις μαγειαις εξεστακεναι αυτους
Acts 8:11 And to him they had regard, because that of long time he had bewitched them with sorceries.
Acts 8:12 οτε δε επιστευσαν τω φιλιππω ευαγγελιζομενω τα περι της βασιλειας του θεου και του ονοματος του ιησου χριστου εβαπτιζοντο ανδρες τε και γυναικες
Acts 8:12 But when they believed Philip preaching the things concerning the kingdom of God, and the name of Jesus Christ, they were baptized, both men and women.
Acts 8:13 ο δε σιμων και αυτος επιστευσεν και βαπτισθεις ην προσκαρτερων τω φιλιππω θεωρων τε σημεια και δυναμεις μεγαλας γινομενας εξιστατο
Acts 8:13 Then Simon himself believed also: and when he was baptized, he continued with Philip, and wondered, beholding the miracles and signs which were done.
Acts 8:14 ακουσαντες δε οι εν ιεροσολυμοις αποστολοι οτι δεδεκται η σαμαρεια τον λογον του θεου απεστειλαν προς αυτους τον πετρον και ιωαννην
Acts 8:14 Now when the apostles which were at Jerusalem heard that Samaria had received the word of God, they sent unto them Peter and John:
Acts 8:15 οιτινες καταβαντες προσηυξαντο περι αυτων οπως λαβωσιν πνευμα αγιον
Acts 8:15 Who, when they were come down, prayed for them, that they might receive the Holy Ghost:
Acts 8:16 ουπω γαρ ην επ ουδενι αυτων επιπεπτωκος μονον δε βεβαπτισμενοι υπηρχον εις το ονομα του κυριου ιησου
Acts 8:16 (For as yet he was fallen upon none of them: only they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus.)
Acts 8:17 τοτε επετιθουν τας χειρας επ αυτους και ελαμβανον πνευμα αγιον
Acts 8:17 Then laid they their hands on them, and they received the Holy Ghost.
Acts 8:18 θεασαμενος δε ο σιμων οτι δια της επιθεσεως των χειρων των αποστολων διδοται το πνευμα το αγιον προσηνεγκεν αυτοις χρηματα
Acts 8:18 And when Simon saw that through laying on of the apostles' hands the Holy Ghost was given, he offered them money,
Acts 8:19 λεγων δοτε καμοι την εξουσιαν ταυτην ινα ω αν επιθω τας χειρας λαμβανη πνευμα αγιον
Acts 8:19 Saying, Give me also this power, that on whomsoever I lay hands, he may receive the Holy Ghost.
Acts 8:20 πετρος δε ειπεν προς αυτον το αργυριον σου συν σοι ειη εις απωλειαν οτι την δωρεαν του θεου ενομισας δια χρηματων κτασθαι
Acts 8:20 But Peter said unto him, Thy money perish with thee, because thou hast thought that the gift of God may be purchased with money.
Acts 8:21 ουκ εστιν σοι μερις ουδε κληρος εν τω λογω τουτω η γαρ καρδια σου ουκ εστιν ευθεια ενωπιον του θεου
Acts 8:21 Thou hast neither part nor lot in this matter: for thy heart is not right in the sight of God.
Acts 8:22 μετανοησον ουν απο της κακιας σου ταυτης και δεηθητι του θεου ει αρα αφεθησεται σοι η επινοια της καρδιας σου
Acts 8:22 Repent therefore of this thy wickedness, and pray God, if perhaps the thought of thine heart may be forgiven thee.
Acts 8:23 εις γαρ χολην πικριας και συνδεσμον αδικιας ορω σε οντα
Acts 8:23 For I perceive that thou art in the gall of bitterness, and in the bond of iniquity.
Acts 8:24 αποκριθεις δε ο σιμων ειπεν δεηθητε υμεις υπερ εμου προς τον κυριον οπως μηδεν επελθη επ εμε ων ειρηκατε
Acts 8:24 Then answered Simon, and said, Pray ye to the LORD for me, that none of these things which ye have spoken come upon me.
Acts 8:25 οι μεν ουν διαμαρτυραμενοι και λαλησαντες τον λογον του κυριου υπεστρεψαν εις ιερουσαλημ πολλας τε κωμας των σαμαρειτων ευηγγελισαντο
Acts 8:25 And they, when they had testified and preached the word of the Lord, returned to Jerusalem, and preached the gospel in many villages of the Samaritans.
Acts 8:26 αγγελος δε κυριου ελαλησεν προς φιλιππον λεγων αναστηθι και πορευου κατα μεσημβριαν επι την οδον την καταβαινουσαν απο ιερουσαλημ εις γαζαν αυτη εστιν ερημος
Acts 8:26 And the angel of the Lord spake unto Philip, saying, Arise, and go toward the south unto the way that goeth down from Jerusalem unto Gaza, which is desert.
Acts 8:27 και αναστας επορευθη και ιδου ανηρ αιθιοψ ευνουχος δυναστης κανδακης της βασιλισσης αιθιοπων ος ην επι πασης της γαζης αυτης ος εληλυθει προσκυνησων εις ιερουσαλημ
Acts 8:27 And he arose and went: and, behold, a man of Ethiopia, an eunuch of great authority under Candace queen of the Ethiopians, who had the charge of all her treasure, and had come to Jerusalem for to worship,
Acts 8:28 ην τε υποστρεφων και καθημενος επι του αρματος αυτου και ανεγινωσκεν τον προφητην ησαιαν
Acts 8:28 Was returning, and sitting in his chariot read Esaias the prophet.
Acts 8:29 ειπεν δε το πνευμα τω φιλιππω προσελθε και κολληθητι τω αρματι τουτω
Acts 8:29 Then the Spirit said unto Philip, Go near, and join thyself to this chariot.
Acts 8:30 προσδραμων δε ο φιλιππος ηκουσεν αυτου αναγινωσκοντος τον προφητην ησαιαν και ειπεν αρα γε γινωσκεις α αναγινωσκεις
Acts 8:30 And Philip ran thither to him, and heard him read the prophet Esaias, and said, Understandest thou what thou readest?
Acts 8:31 ο δε ειπεν πως γαρ αν δυναιμην εαν μη τις οδηγηση με παρεκαλεσεν τε τον φιλιππον αναβαντα καθισαι συν αυτω
Acts 8:31 And he said, How can I, except some man should guide me? And he desired Philip that he would come up and sit with him.
Acts 8:32 η δε περιοχη της γραφης ην ανεγινωσκεν ην αυτη ως προβατον επι σφαγην ηχθη και ως αμνος εναντιον του κειροντος αυτον αφωνος ουτως ουκ ανοιγει το στομα αυτου
Acts 8:32 The place of the scripture which he read was this, He was led as a sheep to the slaughter; and like a lamb dumb before his shearer, so opened he not his mouth:
Acts 8:33 εν τη ταπεινωσει αυτου η κρισις αυτου ηρθη την δε γενεαν αυτου τις διηγησεται οτι αιρεται απο της γης η ζωη αυτου
Acts 8:33 In his humiliation his judgment was taken away: and who shall declare his generation? for his life is taken from the earth.
Acts 8:34 αποκριθεις δε ο ευνουχος τω φιλιππω ειπεν δεομαι σου περι τινος ο προφητης λεγει τουτο περι εαυτου η περι ετερου τινος
Acts 8:34 And the eunuch answered Philip, and said, I pray thee, of whom speaketh the prophet this? of himself, or of some other man?
Acts 8:35 ανοιξας δε ο φιλιππος το στομα αυτου και αρξαμενος απο της γραφης ταυτης ευηγγελισατο αυτω τον ιησουν
Acts 8:35 Then Philip opened his mouth, and began at the same scripture, and preached unto him Jesus.
Acts 8:36 ως δε επορευοντο κατα την οδον ηλθον επι τι υδωρ και φησιν ο ευνουχος ιδου υδωρ τι κωλυει με βαπτισθηναι
Acts 8:36 And as they went on their way, they came unto a certain water: and the eunuch said, See, here is water; what doth hinder me to be baptized?
Acts 8:37 ειπεν δε ο φιλιππος ει πιστευεις εξ ολης της καρδιας εξεστιν αποκριθεις δε ειπεν πιστευω τον υιον του θεου ειναι τον ιησουν χριστον
Acts 8:37 And Philip said, If thou believest with all thine heart, thou mayest. And he answered and said, I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God.
Acts 8:38 και εκελευσεν στηναι το αρμα και κατεβησαν αμφοτεροι εις το υδωρ ο τε φιλιππος και ο ευνουχος και εβαπτισεν αυτον
Acts 8:38 And he commanded the chariot to stand still: and they went down both into the water, both Philip and the eunuch; and he baptized him.
Acts 8:39 οτε δε ανεβησαν εκ του υδατος πνευμα κυριου ηρπασεν τον φιλιππον και ουκ ειδεν αυτον ουκετι ο ευνουχος επορευετο γαρ την οδον αυτου χαιρων
Acts 8:39 And when they were come up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord caught away Philip, that the eunuch saw him no more: and he went on his way rejoicing.
Acts 8:40 φιλιππος δε ευρεθη εις αζωτον και διερχομενος ευηγγελιζετο τας πολεις πασας εως του ελθειν αυτον εις καισαρειαν
Acts 8:40 But Philip was found at Azotus: and passing through he preached in all the cities, till he came to Caesarea.
Acts 9:1 ο δε σαυλος ετι εμπνεων απειλης και φονου εις τους μαθητας του κυριου προσελθων τω αρχιερει
Acts 9:1 And Saul, yet breathing out threatenings and slaughter against the disciples of the Lord, went unto the high priest,
Acts 9:2 ητησατο παρ αυτου επιστολας εις δαμασκον προς τας συναγωγας οπως εαν τινας ευρη της οδου οντας ανδρας τε και γυναικας δεδεμενους αγαγη εις ιερουσαλημ
Acts 9:2 And desired of him letters to Damascus to the synagogues, that if he found any of this way, whether they were men or women, he might bring them bound unto Jerusalem.
Acts 9:3 εν δε τω πορευεσθαι εγενετο αυτον εγγιζειν τη δαμασκω και εξαιφνης περιηστραψεν αυτον φως απο του ουρανου
Acts 9:3 And as he journeyed, he came near Damascus: and suddenly there shined round about him a light from heaven:
Acts 9:4 και πεσων επι την γην ηκουσεν φωνην λεγουσαν αυτω σαουλ σαουλ τι με διωκεις
Acts 9:4 And he fell to the earth, and heard a voice saying unto him, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me?
Acts 9:5 ειπεν δε τις ει κυριε ο δε κυριος ειπεν εγω ειμι ιησους ον συ διωκεις σκληρον σοι προς κεντρα λακτιζειν
Acts 9:5 And he said, Who art thou, Lord? And the Lord said, I am Jesus whom thou persecutest: it is hard for thee to kick against the pricks.
Acts 9:6 τρεμων τε και θαμβων ειπεν κυριε τι με θελεις ποιησαι και ο κυριος προς αυτον αναστηθι και εισελθε εις την πολιν και λαληθησεται σοι τι σε δει ποιειν
Acts 9:6 And he trembling and astonished said, Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? And the Lord said unto him, Arise, and go into the city, and it shall be told thee what thou must do.
Acts 9:7 οι δε ανδρες οι συνοδευοντες αυτω ειστηκεισαν εννεοι ακουοντες μεν της φωνης μηδενα δε θεωρουντες
Acts 9:7 And the men which journeyed with him stood speechless, hearing a voice, but seeing no man.
Acts 9:8 ηγερθη δε ο σαυλος απο της γης ανεωγμενων δε των οφθαλμων αυτου ουδενα εβλεπεν χειραγωγουντες δε αυτον εισηγαγον εις δαμασκον
Acts 9:8 And Saul arose from the earth; and when his eyes were opened, he saw no man: but they led him by the hand, and brought him into Damascus.
Acts 9:9 και ην ημερας τρεις μη βλεπων και ουκ εφαγεν ουδε επιεν
Acts 9:9 And he was three days without sight, and neither did eat nor drink.
Acts 9:10 ην δε τις μαθητης εν δαμασκω ονοματι ανανιας και ειπεν προς αυτον ο κυριος εν οραματι ανανια ο δε ειπεν ιδου εγω κυριε
Acts 9:10 And there was a certain disciple at Damascus, named Ananias; and to him said the Lord in a vision, Ananias. And he said, Behold, I am here, Lord.
Acts 9:11 ο δε κυριος προς αυτον αναστας πορευθητι επι την ρυμην την καλουμενην ευθειαν και ζητησον εν οικια ιουδα σαυλον ονοματι ταρσεα ιδου γαρ προσευχεται
Acts 9:11 And the Lord said unto him, Arise, and go into the street which is called Straight, and enquire in the house of Judas for one called Saul, of Tarsus: for, behold, he prayeth,
Acts 9:12 και ειδεν εν οραματι ανδρα ονοματι ανανιαν εισελθοντα και επιθεντα αυτω χειρα οπως αναβλεψη
Acts 9:12 And hath seen in a vision a man named Ananias coming in, and putting his hand on him, that he might receive his sight.
Acts 9:13 απεκριθη δε ο ανανιας κυριε ακηκοα απο πολλων περι του ανδρος τουτου οσα κακα εποιησεν τοις αγιοις σου εν ιερουσαλημ
Acts 9:13 Then Ananias answered, Lord, I have heard by many of this man, how much evil he hath done to thy saints at Jerusalem:
Acts 9:14 και ωδε εχει εξουσιαν παρα των αρχιερεων δησαι παντας τους επικαλουμενους το ονομα σου
Acts 9:14 And here he hath authority from the chief priests to bind all that call on thy name.
Acts 9:15 ειπεν δε προς αυτον ο κυριος πορευου οτι σκευος εκλογης μοι εστιν ουτος του βαστασαι το ονομα μου ενωπιον εθνων και βασιλεων υιων τε ισραηλ
Acts 9:15 But the Lord said unto him, Go thy way: for he is a chosen vessel unto me, to bear my name before the Gentiles, and kings, and the children of Israel:
Acts 9:16 εγω γαρ υποδειξω αυτω οσα δει αυτον υπερ του ονοματος μου παθειν
Acts 9:16 For I will shew him how great things he must suffer for my name's sake.
Acts 9:17 απηλθεν δε ανανιας και εισηλθεν εις την οικιαν και επιθεις επ αυτον τας χειρας ειπεν σαουλ αδελφε ο κυριος απεσταλκεν με ιησους ο οφθεις σοι εν τη οδω η ηρχου οπως αναβλεψης και πλησθης πνευματος αγιου
Acts 9:17 And Ananias went his way, and entered into the house; and putting his hands on him said, Brother Saul, the Lord, even Jesus, that appeared unto thee in the way as thou camest, hath sent me, that thou mightest receive thy sight, and be filled with the Holy Ghost.
Acts 9:18 και ευθεως απεπεσον απο των οφθαλμων αυτου ωσει λεπιδες ανεβλεψεν τε παραχρημα και αναστας εβαπτισθη
Acts 9:18 And immediately there fell from his eyes as it had been scales: and he received sight forthwith, and arose, and was baptized.
Acts 9:19 και λαβων τροφην ενισχυσεν εγενετο δε ο σαυλος μετα των εν δαμασκω μαθητων ημερας τινας
Acts 9:19 And when he had received meat, he was strengthened. Then was Saul certain days with the disciples which were at Damascus.
Acts 9:20 και ευθεως εν ταις συναγωγαις εκηρυσσεν τον χριστον οτι ουτος εστιν ο υιος του θεου
Acts 9:20 And straightway he preached Christ in the synagogues, that he is the Son of God.
Acts 9:21 εξισταντο δε παντες οι ακουοντες και ελεγον ουχ ουτος εστιν ο πορθησας εν ιερουσαλημ τους επικαλουμενους το ονομα τουτο και ωδε εις τουτο εληλυθει ινα δεδεμενους αυτους αγαγη επι τους αρχιερεις
Acts 9:21 But all that heard him were amazed, and said; Is not this he that destroyed them which called on this name in Jerusalem, and came hither for that intent, that he might bring them bound unto the chief priests?
Acts 9:22 σαυλος δε μαλλον ενεδυναμουτο και συνεχυνεν τους ιουδαιους τους κατοικουντας εν δαμασκω συμβιβαζων οτι ουτος εστιν ο χριστος
Acts 9:22 But Saul increased the more in strength, and confounded the Jews which dwelt at Damascus, proving that this is very Christ.
Acts 9:23 ως δε επληρουντο ημεραι ικαναι συνεβουλευσαντο οι ιουδαιοι ανελειν αυτον
Acts 9:23 And after that many days were fulfilled, the Jews took counsel to kill him:
Acts 9:24 εγνωσθη δε τω σαυλω η επιβουλη αυτων παρετηρουν τε τας πυλας ημερας τε και νυκτος οπως αυτον ανελωσιν
Acts 9:24 But their laying await was known of Saul. And they watched the gates day and night to kill him.
Acts 9:25 λαβοντες δε αυτον οι μαθηται νυκτος καθηκαν δια του τειχους χαλασαντες εν σπυριδι
Acts 9:25 Then the disciples took him by night, and let him down by the wall in a basket.
Acts 9:26 παραγενομενος δε ο σαυλος εις ιερουσαλημ επειρατο κολλασθαι τοις μαθηταις και παντες εφοβουντο αυτον μη πιστευοντες οτι εστιν μαθητης
Acts 9:26 And when Saul was come to Jerusalem, he assayed to join himself to the disciples: but they were all afraid of him, and believed not that he was a disciple.
Acts 9:27 βαρναβας δε επιλαβομενος αυτον ηγαγεν προς τους αποστολους και διηγησατο αυτοις πως εν τη οδω ειδεν τον κυριον και οτι ελαλησεν αυτω και πως εν δαμασκω επαρρησιασατο εν τω ονοματι του ιησου
Acts 9:27 But Barnabas took him, and brought him to the apostles, and declared unto them how he had seen the Lord in the way, and that he had spoken to him, and how he had preached boldly at Damascus in the name of Jesus.
Acts 9:28 και ην μετ αυτων εισπορευομενος και εκπορευομενος εν ιερουσαλημ και παρρησιαζομενος εν τω ονοματι του κυριου ιησου
Acts 9:28 And he was with them coming in and going out at Jerusalem.
Acts 9:29 ελαλει τε και συνεζητει προς τους ελληνιστας οι δε επεχειρουν αυτον ανελειν
Acts 9:29 And he spake boldly in the name of the Lord Jesus, and disputed against the Grecians: but they went about to slay him.
Acts 9:30 επιγνοντες δε οι αδελφοι κατηγαγον αυτον εις καισαρειαν και εξαπεστειλαν αυτον εις ταρσον
Acts 9:30 Which when the brethren knew, they brought him down to Caesarea, and sent him forth to Tarsus.
Acts 9:31 αι μεν ουν εκκλησιαι καθ ολης της ιουδαιας και γαλιλαιας και σαμαρειας ειχον ειρηνην οικοδομουμεναι και πορευομεναι τω φοβω του κυριου και τη παρακλησει του αγιου πνευματος επληθυνοντο
Acts 9:31 Then had the churches rest throughout all Judaea and Galilee and Samaria, and were edified; and walking in the fear of the Lord, and in the comfort of the Holy Ghost, were multiplied.
Acts 9:32 εγενετο δε πετρον διερχομενον δια παντων κατελθειν και προς τους αγιους τους κατοικουντας λυδδαν
Acts 9:32 And it came to pass, as Peter passed throughout all quarters, he came down also to the saints which dwelt at Lydda.
Acts 9:33 ευρεν δε εκει ανθρωπον τινα αινεαν ονοματι εξ ετων οκτω κατακειμενον επι κραββατω ος ην παραλελυμενος
Acts 9:33 And there he found a certain man named Aeneas, which had kept his bed eight years, and was sick of the palsy.
Acts 9:34 και ειπεν αυτω ο πετρος αινεα ιαται σε ιησους ο χριστος αναστηθι και στρωσον σεαυτω και ευθεως ανεστη
Acts 9:34 And Peter said unto him, Aeneas, Jesus Christ maketh thee whole: arise, and make thy bed. And he arose immediately.
Acts 9:35 και ειδον αυτον παντες οι κατοικουντες λυδδαν και τον σαρωναν οιτινες επεστρεψαν επι τον κυριον
Acts 9:35 And all that dwelt at Lydda and Saron saw him, and turned to the Lord.
Acts 9:36 εν ιοππη δε τις ην μαθητρια ονοματι ταβιθα η διερμηνευομενη λεγεται δορκας αυτη ην πληρης αγαθων εργων και ελεημοσυνων ων εποιει
Acts 9:36 Now there was at Joppa a certain disciple named Tabitha, which by interpretation is called Dorcas: this woman was full of good works and almsdeeds which she did.
Acts 9:37 εγενετο δε εν ταις ημεραις εκειναις ασθενησασαν αυτην αποθανειν λουσαντες δε αυτην εθηκαν εν υπερωω
Acts 9:37 And it came to pass in those days, that she was sick, and died: whom when they had washed, they laid her in an upper chamber.
Acts 9:38 εγγυς δε ουσης λυδδης τη ιοππη οι μαθηται ακουσαντες οτι πετρος εστιν εν αυτη απεστειλαν δυο ανδρας προς αυτον παρακαλουντες μη οκνησαι διελθειν εως αυτων
Acts 9:38 And forasmuch as Lydda was nigh to Joppa, and the disciples had heard that Peter was there, they sent unto him two men, desiring him that he would not delay to come to them.
Acts 9:39 αναστας δε πετρος συνηλθεν αυτοις ον παραγενομενον ανηγαγον εις το υπερωον και παρεστησαν αυτω πασαι αι χηραι κλαιουσαι και επιδεικνυμεναι χιτωνας και ιματια οσα εποιει μετ αυτων ουσα η δορκας
Acts 9:39 Then Peter arose and went with them. When he was come, they brought him into the upper chamber: and all the widows stood by him weeping, and shewing the coats and garments which Dorcas made, while she was with them.
Acts 9:40 εκβαλων δε εξω παντας ο πετρος θεις τα γονατα προσηυξατο και επιστρεψας προς το σωμα ειπεν ταβιθα αναστηθι η δε ηνοιξεν τους οφθαλμους αυτης και ιδουσα τον πετρον ανεκαθισεν
Acts 9:40 But Peter put them all forth, and kneeled down, and prayed; and turning him to the body said, Tabitha, arise. And she opened her eyes: and when she saw Peter, she sat up.
Acts 9:41 δους δε αυτη χειρα ανεστησεν αυτην φωνησας δε τους αγιους και τας χηρας παρεστησεν αυτην ζωσαν
Acts 9:41 And he gave her his hand, and lifted her up, and when he had called the saints and widows, presented her alive.
Acts 9:42 γνωστον δε εγενετο καθ ολης της ιοππης και πολλοι επιστευσαν επι τον κυριον
Acts 9:42 And it was known throughout all Joppa; and many believed in the Lord.
Acts 9:43 εγενετο δε ημερας ικανας μειναι αυτον εν ιοππη παρα τινι σιμωνι βυρσει
Acts 9:43 And it came to pass, that he tarried many days in Joppa with one Simon a tanner.
Acts 10:1 ανηρ δε τις ην εν καισαρεια ονοματι κορνηλιος εκατονταρχης εκ σπειρης της καλουμενης ιταλικης
Acts 10:1 There was a certain man in Caesarea called Cornelius, a centurion of the band called the Italian band,
Acts 10:2 ευσεβης και φοβουμενος τον θεον συν παντι τω οικω αυτου ποιων τε ελεημοσυνας πολλας τω λαω και δεομενος του θεου διαπαντος
Acts 10:2 A devout man, and one that feared God with all his house, which gave much alms to the people, and prayed to God alway.
Acts 10:3 ειδεν εν οραματι φανερως ωσει ωραν εννατην της ημερας αγγελον του θεου εισελθοντα προς αυτον και ειποντα αυτω κορνηλιε
Acts 10:3 He saw in a vision evidently about the ninth hour of the day an angel of God coming in to him, and saying unto him, Cornelius.
Acts 10:4 ο δε ατενισας αυτω και εμφοβος γενομενος ειπεν τι εστιν κυριε ειπεν δε αυτω αι προσευχαι σου και αι ελεημοσυναι σου ανεβησαν εις μνημοσυνον ενωπιον του θεου
Acts 10:4 And when he looked on him, he was afraid, and said, What is it, Lord? And he said unto him, Thy prayers and thine alms are come up for a memorial before God.
Acts 10:5 και νυν πεμψον εις ιοππην ανδρας και μεταπεμψαι σιμωνα ος επικαλειται πετρος
Acts 10:5 And now send men to Joppa, and call for one Simon, whose surname is Peter:
Acts 10:6 ουτος ξενιζεται παρα τινι σιμωνι βυρσει ω εστιν οικια παρα θαλασσαν ουτος λαλησει σοι τι σε δει ποιειν
Acts 10:6 He lodgeth with one Simon a tanner, whose house is by the sea side: he shall tell thee what thou oughtest to do.
Acts 10:7 ως δε απηλθεν ο αγγελος ο λαλων τω κορνηλιω φωνησας δυο των οικετων αυτου και στρατιωτην ευσεβη των προσκαρτερουντων αυτω
Acts 10:7 And when the angel which spake unto Cornelius was departed, he called two of his household servants, and a devout soldier of them that waited on him continually;
Acts 10:8 και εξηγησαμενος αυτοις απαντα απεστειλεν αυτους εις την ιοππην
Acts 10:8 And when he had declared all these things unto them, he sent them to Joppa.
Acts 10:9 τη δε επαυριον οδοιπορουντων εκεινων και τη πολει εγγιζοντων ανεβη πετρος επι το δωμα προσευξασθαι περι ωραν εκτην
Acts 10:9 On the morrow, as they went on their journey, and drew nigh unto the city, Peter went up upon the housetop to pray about the sixth hour:
Acts 10:10 εγενετο δε προσπεινος και ηθελεν γευσασθαι παρασκευαζοντων δε εκεινων επεπεσεν επ αυτον εκστασις
Acts 10:10 And he became very hungry, and would have eaten: but while they made ready, he fell into a trance,
Acts 10:11 και θεωρει τον ουρανον ανεωγμενον και καταβαινον επ αυτον σκευος τι ως οθονην μεγαλην τεσσαρσιν αρχαις δεδεμενον και καθιεμενον επι της γης
Acts 10:11 And saw heaven opened, and a certain vessel descending upon him, as it had been a great sheet knit at the four corners, and let down to the earth:
Acts 10:12 εν ω υπηρχεν παντα τα τετραποδα της γης και τα θηρια και τα ερπετα και τα πετεινα του ουρανου
Acts 10:12 Wherein were all manner of fourfooted beasts of the earth, and wild beasts, and creeping things, and fowls of the air.
Acts 10:13 και εγενετο φωνη προς αυτον αναστας πετρε θυσον και φαγε
Acts 10:13 And there came a voice to him, Rise, Peter; kill, and eat.
Acts 10:14 ο δε πετρος ειπεν μηδαμως κυριε οτι ουδεποτε εφαγον παν κοινον η ακαθαρτον
Acts 10:14 But Peter said, Not so, Lord; for I have never eaten any thing that is common or unclean.
Acts 10:15 και φωνη παλιν εκ δευτερου προς αυτον α ο θεος εκαθαρισεν συ μη κοινου
Acts 10:15 And the voice spake unto him again the second time, What God hath cleansed, that call not thou common.
Acts 10:16 τουτο δε εγενετο επι τρις και παλιν ανεληφθη το σκευος εις τον ουρανον
Acts 10:16 This was done thrice: and the vessel was received up again into heaven.
Acts 10:17 ως δε εν εαυτω διηπορει ο πετρος τι αν ειη το οραμα ο ειδεν και ιδου οι ανδρες οι απεσταλμενοι απο του κορνηλιου διερωτησαντες την οικιαν σιμωνος επεστησαν επι τον πυλωνα
Acts 10:17 Now while Peter doubted in himself what this vision which he had seen should mean, behold, the men which were sent from Cornelius had made enquiry for Simon's house, and stood before the gate,
Acts 10:18 και φωνησαντες επυνθανοντο ει σιμων ο επικαλουμενος πετρος ενθαδε ξενιζεται
Acts 10:18 And called, and asked whether Simon, which was surnamed Peter, were lodged there.
Acts 10:19 του δε πετρου ενθυμουμενου περι του οραματος ειπεν αυτω το πνευμα ιδου ανδρες τρεις ζητουσιν σε
Acts 10:19 While Peter thought on the vision, the Spirit said unto him, Behold, three men seek thee.
Acts 10:20 αλλα αναστας καταβηθι και πορευου συν αυτοις μηδεν διακρινομενος διοτι εγω απεσταλκα αυτους
Acts 10:20 Arise therefore, and get thee down, and go with them, doubting nothing: for I have sent them.
Acts 10:21 καταβας δε πετρος προς τους ανδρας τους απεσταλμενους απο του κορνηλιου προς αυτον ειπεν ιδου εγω ειμι ον ζητειτε τις η αιτια δι ην παρεστε
Acts 10:21 Then Peter went down to the men which were sent unto him from Cornelius; and said, Behold, I am he whom ye seek: what is the cause wherefore ye are come?
Acts 10:22 οι δε ειπον κορνηλιος εκατονταρχης ανηρ δικαιος και φοβουμενος τον θεον μαρτυρουμενος τε υπο ολου του εθνους των ιουδαιων εχρηματισθη υπο αγγελου αγιου μεταπεμψασθαι σε εις τον οικον αυτου και ακουσαι ρηματα παρα σου
Acts 10:22 And they said, Cornelius the centurion, a just man, and one that feareth God, and of good report among all the nation of the Jews, was warned from God by an holy angel to send for thee into his house, and to hear words of thee.
Acts 10:23 εισκαλεσαμενος ουν αυτους εξενισεν τη δε επαυριον ο πετρος εξηλθεν συν αυτοις και τινες των αδελφων των απο της ιοππης συνηλθον αυτω
Acts 10:23 Then called he them in, and lodged them. And on the morrow Peter went away with them, and certain brethren from Joppa accompanied him.
Acts 10:24 και τη επαυριον εισηλθον εις την καισαρειαν ο δε κορνηλιος ην προσδοκων αυτους συγκαλεσαμενος τους συγγενεις αυτου και τους αναγκαιους φιλους
Acts 10:24 And the morrow after they entered into Caesarea. And Cornelius waited for them, and he had called together his kinsmen and near friends.
Acts 10:25 ως δε εγενετο εισελθειν τον πετρον συναντησας αυτω ο κορνηλιος πεσων επι τους ποδας προσεκυνησεν
Acts 10:25 And as Peter was coming in, Cornelius met him, and fell down at his feet, and worshipped him.
Acts 10:26 ο δε πετρος αυτον ηγειρεν λεγων αναστηθι καγω αυτος ανθρωπος ειμι
Acts 10:26 But Peter took him up, saying, Stand up; I myself also am a man.
Acts 10:27 και συνομιλων αυτω εισηλθεν και ευρισκει συνεληλυθοτας πολλους
Acts 10:27 And as he talked with him, he went in, and found many that were come together.
Acts 10:28 εφη τε προς αυτους υμεις επιστασθε ως αθεμιτον εστιν ανδρι ιουδαιω κολλασθαι η προσερχεσθαι αλλοφυλω και εμοι ο θεος εδειξεν μηδενα κοινον η ακαθαρτον λεγειν ανθρωπον
Acts 10:28 And he said unto them, Ye know how that it is an unlawful thing for a man that is a Jew to keep company, or come unto one of another nation; but God hath shewed me that I should not call any man common or unclean.
Acts 10:29 διο και αναντιρρητως ηλθον μεταπεμφθεις πυνθανομαι ουν τινι λογω μετεπεμψασθε με
Acts 10:29 Therefore came I unto you without gainsaying, as soon as I was sent for: I ask therefore for what intent ye have sent for me?
Acts 10:30 και ο κορνηλιος εφη απο τεταρτης ημερας μεχρι ταυτης της ωρας ημην νηστευων και την εννατην ωραν προσευχομενος εν τω οικω μου και ιδου ανηρ εστη ενωπιον μου εν εσθητι λαμπρα
Acts 10:30 And Cornelius said, Four days ago I was fasting until this hour; and at the ninth hour I prayed in my house, and, behold, a man stood before me in bright clothing,
Acts 10:31 και φησιν κορνηλιε εισηκουσθη σου η προσευχη και αι ελεημοσυναι σου εμνησθησαν ενωπιον του θεου
Acts 10:31 And said, Cornelius, thy prayer is heard, and thine alms are had in remembrance in the sight of God.
Acts 10:32 πεμψον ουν εις ιοππην και μετακαλεσαι σιμωνα ος επικαλειται πετρος ουτος ξενιζεται εν οικια σιμωνος βυρσεως παρα θαλασσαν ος παραγενομενος λαλησει σοι
Acts 10:32 Send therefore to Joppa, and call hither Simon, whose surname is Peter; he is lodged in the house of one Simon a tanner by the sea side: who, when he cometh, shall speak unto thee.
Acts 10:33 εξαυτης ουν επεμψα προς σε συ τε καλως εποιησας παραγενομενος νυν ουν παντες ημεις ενωπιον του θεου παρεσμεν ακουσαι παντα τα προστεταγμενα σοι υπο του θεου
Acts 10:33 Immediately therefore I sent to thee; and thou hast well done that thou art come. Now therefore are we all here present before God, to hear all things that are commanded thee of God.
Acts 10:34 ανοιξας δε πετρος το στομα ειπεν επ αληθειας καταλαμβανομαι οτι ουκ εστιν προσωποληπτης ο θεος
Acts 10:34 Then Peter opened his mouth, and said, Of a truth I perceive that God is no respecter of persons:
Acts 10:35 αλλ εν παντι εθνει ο φοβουμενος αυτον και εργαζομενος δικαιοσυνην δεκτος αυτω εστιν
Acts 10:35 But in every nation he that feareth him, and worketh righteousness, is accepted with him.
Acts 10:36 τον λογον ον απεστειλεν τοις υιοις ισραηλ ευαγγελιζομενος ειρηνην δια ιησου χριστου ουτος εστιν παντων κυριος
Acts 10:36 The word which God sent unto the children of Israel, preaching peace by Jesus Christ: (he is Lord of all:)
Acts 10:37 υμεις οιδατε το γενομενον ρημα καθ ολης της ιουδαιας αρξαμενον απο της γαλιλαιας μετα το βαπτισμα ο εκηρυξεν ιωαννης
Acts 10:37 That word, I say, ye know, which was published throughout all Judaea, and began from Galilee, after the baptism which John preached;
Acts 10:38 ιησουν τον απο ναζαρετ ως εχρισεν αυτον ο θεος πνευματι αγιω και δυναμει ος διηλθεν ευεργετων και ιωμενος παντας τους καταδυναστευομενους υπο του διαβολου οτι ο θεος ην μετ αυτου
Acts 10:38 How God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Ghost and with power: who went about doing good, and healing all that were oppressed of the devil; for God was with him.
Acts 10:39 και ημεις εσμεν μαρτυρες παντων ων εποιησεν εν τε τη χωρα των ιουδαιων και εν ιερουσαλημ ον ανειλον κρεμασαντες επι ξυλου
Acts 10:39 And we are witnesses of all things which he did both in the land of the Jews, and in Jerusalem; whom they slew and hanged on a tree:
Acts 10:40 τουτον ο θεος ηγειρεν τη τριτη ημερα και εδωκεν αυτον εμφανη γενεσθαι
Acts 10:40 Him God raised up the third day, and shewed him openly;
Acts 10:41 ου παντι τω λαω αλλα μαρτυσιν τοις προκεχειροτονημενοις υπο του θεου ημιν οιτινες συνεφαγομεν και συνεπιομεν αυτω μετα το αναστηναι αυτον εκ νεκρων
Acts 10:41 Not to all the people, but unto witnesses chosen before God, even to us, who did eat and drink with him after he rose from the dead.
Acts 10:42 και παρηγγειλεν ημιν κηρυξαι τω λαω και διαμαρτυρασθαι οτι αυτος εστιν ο ωρισμενος υπο του θεου κριτης ζωντων και νεκρων
Acts 10:42 And he commanded us to preach unto the people, and to testify that it is he which was ordained of God to be the Judge of quick and dead.
Acts 10:43 τουτω παντες οι προφηται μαρτυρουσιν αφεσιν αμαρτιων λαβειν δια του ονοματος αυτου παντα τον πιστευοντα εις αυτον
Acts 10:43 To him give all the prophets witness, that through his name whosoever believeth in him shall receive remission of sins.
Acts 10:44 ετι λαλουντος του πετρου τα ρηματα ταυτα επεπεσεν το πνευμα το αγιον επι παντας τους ακουοντας τον λογον
Acts 10:44 While Peter yet spake these words, the Holy Ghost fell on all them which heard the word.
Acts 10:45 και εξεστησαν οι εκ περιτομης πιστοι οσοι συνηλθον τω πετρω οτι και επι τα εθνη η δωρεα του αγιου πνευματος εκκεχυται
Acts 10:45 And they of the circumcision which believed were astonished, as many as came with Peter, because that on the Gentiles also was poured out the gift of the Holy Ghost.
Acts 10:46 ηκουον γαρ αυτων λαλουντων γλωσσαις και μεγαλυνοντων τον θεον τοτε απεκριθη ο πετρος
Acts 10:46 For they heard them speak with tongues, and magnify God. Then answered Peter,
Acts 10:47 μητι το υδωρ κωλυσαι δυναται τις του μη βαπτισθηναι τουτους οιτινες το πνευμα το αγιον ελαβον καθως και ημεις
Acts 10:47 Can any man forbid water, that these should not be baptized, which have received the Holy Ghost as well as we?
Acts 10:48 προσεταξεν τε αυτους βαπτισθηναι εν τω ονοματι του κυριου τοτε ηρωτησαν αυτον επιμειναι ημερας τινας
Acts 10:48 And he commanded them to be baptized in the name of the Lord.  Then prayed they him to tarry certain days.
Acts 11:1 ηκουσαν δε οι αποστολοι και οι αδελφοι οι οντες κατα την ιουδαιαν οτι και τα εθνη εδεξαντο τον λογον του θεου
Acts 11:1 And the apostles and brethren that were in Judaea heard that the Gentiles had also received the word of God.
Acts 11:2 και οτε ανεβη πετρος εις ιεροσολυμα διεκρινοντο προς αυτον οι εκ περιτομης
Acts 11:2 And when Peter was come up to Jerusalem, they that were of the circumcision contended with him,
Acts 11:3 λεγοντες οτι προς ανδρας ακροβυστιαν εχοντας εισηλθες και συνεφαγες αυτοις
Acts 11:3 Saying, Thou wentest in to men uncircumcised, and didst eat with them.
Acts 11:4 αρξαμενος δε ο πετρος εξετιθετο αυτοις καθεξης λεγων
Acts 11:4 But Peter rehearsed the matter from the beginning, and expounded it by order unto them, saying,
Acts 11:5 εγω ημην εν πολει ιοππη προσευχομενος και ειδον εν εκστασει οραμα καταβαινον σκευος τι ως οθονην μεγαλην τεσσαρσιν αρχαις καθιεμενην εκ του ουρανου και ηλθεν αχρις εμου
Acts 11:5 I was in the city of Joppa praying: and in a trance I saw a vision, A certain vessel descend, as it had been a great sheet, let down from heaven by four corners; and it came even to me:
Acts 11:6 εις ην ατενισας κατενοουν και ειδον τα τετραποδα της γης και τα θηρια και τα ερπετα και τα πετεινα του ουρανου
Acts 11:6 Upon the which when I had fastened mine eyes, I considered, and saw fourfooted beasts of the earth, and wild beasts, and creeping things, and fowls of the air.
Acts 11:7 ηκουσα δε φωνης λεγουσης μοι αναστας πετρε θυσον και φαγε
Acts 11:7 And I heard a voice saying unto me, Arise, Peter; slay and eat.
Acts 11:8 ειπον δε μηδαμως κυριε οτι παν κοινον η ακαθαρτον ουδεποτε εισηλθεν εις το στομα μου
Acts 11:8 But I said, Not so, Lord: for nothing common or unclean hath at any time entered into my mouth.
Acts 11:9 απεκριθη δε μοι φωνη εκ δευτερου εκ του ουρανου α ο θεος εκαθαρισεν συ μη κοινου
Acts 11:9 But the voice answered me again from heaven, What God hath cleansed, that call not thou common.
Acts 11:10 τουτο δε εγενετο επι τρις και παλιν ανεσπασθη απαντα εις τον ουρανον
Acts 11:10 And this was done three times: and all were drawn up again into heaven.
Acts 11:11 και ιδου εξαυτης τρεις ανδρες επεστησαν επι την οικιαν εν η ημην απεσταλμενοι απο καισαρειας προς με
Acts 11:11 And, behold, immediately there were three men already come unto the house where I was, sent from Caesarea unto me.
Acts 11:12 ειπεν δε μοι το πνευμα συνελθειν αυτοις μηδεν διακρινομενον ηλθον δε συν εμοι και οι εξ αδελφοι ουτοι και εισηλθομεν εις τον οικον του ανδρος
Acts 11:12 And the Spirit bade me go with them, nothing doubting.  Moreover these six brethren accompanied me, and we entered into the man's house:
Acts 11:13 απηγγειλεν τε ημιν πως ειδεν τον αγγελον εν τω οικω αυτου σταθεντα και ειποντα αυτω αποστειλον εις ιοππην ανδρας και μεταπεμψαι σιμωνα τον επικαλουμενον πετρον
Acts 11:13 And he shewed us how he had seen an angel in his house, which stood and said unto him, Send men to Joppa, and call for Simon, whose surname is Peter;
Acts 11:14 ος λαλησει ρηματα προς σε εν οις σωθηση συ και πας ο οικος σου
Acts 11:14 Who shall tell thee words, whereby thou and all thy house shall be saved.
Acts 11:15 εν δε τω αρξασθαι με λαλειν επεπεσεν το πνευμα το αγιον επ αυτους ωσπερ και εφ ημας εν αρχη
Acts 11:15 And as I began to speak, the Holy Ghost fell on them, as on us at the beginning.
Acts 11:16 εμνησθην δε του ρηματος κυριου ως ελεγεν ιωαννης μεν εβαπτισεν υδατι υμεις δε βαπτισθησεσθε εν πνευματι αγιω
Acts 11:16 Then remembered I the word of the Lord, how that he said, John indeed baptized with water; but ye shall be baptized with the Holy Ghost.
Acts 11:17 ει ουν την ισην δωρεαν εδωκεν αυτοις ο θεος ως και ημιν πιστευσασιν επι τον κυριον ιησουν χριστον εγω δε τις ημην δυνατος κωλυσαι τον θεον
Acts 11:17 Forasmuch then as God gave them the like gift as he did unto us, who believed on the Lord Jesus Christ; what was I, that I could withstand God?
Acts 11:18 ακουσαντες δε ταυτα ησυχασαν και εδοξαζον τον θεον λεγοντες αραγε και τοις εθνεσιν ο θεος την μετανοιαν εδωκεν εις ζωην
Acts 11:18 When they heard these things, they held their peace, and glorified God, saying, Then hath God also to the Gentiles granted repentance unto life.
Acts 11:19 οι μεν ουν διασπαρεντες απο της θλιψεως της γενομενης επι στεφανω διηλθον εως φοινικης και κυπρου και αντιοχειας μηδενι λαλουντες τον λογον ει μη μονον ιουδαιοις
Acts 11:19 Now they which were scattered abroad upon the persecution that arose about Stephen travelled as far as Phenice, and Cyprus, and Antioch, preaching the word to none but unto the Jews only.
Acts 11:20 ησαν δε τινες εξ αυτων ανδρες κυπριοι και κυρηναιοι οιτινες εισελθοντες εις αντιοχειαν ελαλουν προς τους ελληνιστας ευαγγελιζομενοι τον κυριον ιησουν
Acts 11:20 And some of them were men of Cyprus and Cyrene, which, when they were come to Antioch, spake unto the Grecians, preaching the LORD Jesus.
Acts 11:21 και ην χειρ κυριου μετ αυτων πολυς τε αριθμος πιστευσας επεστρεψεν επι τον κυριον
Acts 11:21 And the hand of the Lord was with them: and a great number believed, and turned unto the Lord.
Acts 11:22 ηκουσθη δε ο λογος εις τα ωτα της εκκλησιας της εν ιεροσολυμοις περι αυτων και εξαπεστειλαν βαρναβαν διελθειν εως αντιοχειας
Acts 11:22 Then tidings of these things came unto the ears of the church which was in Jerusalem: and they sent forth Barnabas, that he should go as far as Antioch.
Acts 11:23 ος παραγενομενος και ιδων την χαριν του θεου εχαρη και παρεκαλει παντας τη προθεσει της καρδιας προσμενειν τω κυριω
Acts 11:23 Who, when he came, and had seen the grace of God, was glad, and exhorted them all, that with purpose of heart they would cleave unto the Lord.
Acts 11:24 οτι ην ανηρ αγαθος και πληρης πνευματος αγιου και πιστεως και προσετεθη οχλος ικανος τω κυριω
Acts 11:24 For he was a good man, and full of the Holy Ghost and of faith: and much people was added unto the Lord.
Acts 11:25 εξηλθεν δε εις ταρσον ο βαρναβας αναζητησαι σαυλον
Acts 11:25 Then departed Barnabas to Tarsus, for to seek Saul:
Acts 11:26 και ευρων αυτον ηγαγεν αυτον εις αντιοχειαν εγενετο δε αυτους ενιαυτον ολον συναχθηναι εν τη εκκλησια και διδαξαι οχλον ικανον χρηματισαι τε πρωτον εν αντιοχεια τους μαθητας χριστιανους
Acts 11:26 And when he had found him, he brought him unto Antioch. And it came to pass, that a whole year they assembled themselves with the church, and taught much people. And the disciples were called Christians first in Antioch.
Acts 11:27 εν ταυταις δε ταις ημεραις κατηλθον απο ιεροσολυμων προφηται εις αντιοχειαν
Acts 11:27 And in these days came prophets from Jerusalem unto Antioch.
Acts 11:28 αναστας δε εις εξ αυτων ονοματι αγαβος εσημανεν δια του πνευματος λιμον μεγαν μελλειν εσεσθαι εφ ολην την οικουμενην οστις και εγενετο επι κλαυδιου καισαρος
Acts 11:28 And there stood up one of them named Agabus, and signified by the Spirit that there should be great dearth throughout all the world: which came to pass in the days of Claudius Caesar.
Acts 11:29 των δε μαθητων καθως ηυπορειτο τις ωρισαν εκαστος αυτων εις διακονιαν πεμψαι τοις κατοικουσιν εν τη ιουδαια αδελφοις
Acts 11:29 Then the disciples, every man according to his ability, determined to send relief unto the brethren which dwelt in Judaea:
Acts 11:30 ο και εποιησαν αποστειλαντες προς τους πρεσβυτερους δια χειρος βαρναβα και σαυλου
Acts 11:30 Which also they did, and sent it to the elders by the hands of Barnabas and Saul.
Acts 12:1 κατ εκεινον δε τον καιρον επεβαλεν ηρωδης ο βασιλευς τας χειρας κακωσαι τινας των απο της εκκλησιας
Acts 12:1 Now about that time Herod the king stretched forth his hands to vex certain of the church.
Acts 12:2 ανειλεν δε ιακωβον τον αδελφον ιωαννου μαχαιρα
Acts 12:2 And he killed James the brother of John with the sword.
Acts 12:3 και ιδων οτι αρεστον εστιν τοις ιουδαιοις προσεθετο συλλαβειν και πετρον ησαν δε ημεραι των αζυμων
Acts 12:3 And because he saw it pleased the Jews, he proceeded further to take Peter also. (Then were the days of unleavened bread.)
Acts 12:4 ον και πιασας εθετο εις φυλακην παραδους τεσσαρσιν τετραδιοις στρατιωτων φυλασσειν αυτον βουλομενος μετα το πασχα αναγαγειν αυτον τω λαω
Acts 12:4 And when he had apprehended him, he put him in prison, and delivered him to four quaternions of soldiers to keep him; intending after Easter to bring him forth to the people.
Acts 12:5 ο μεν ουν πετρος ετηρειτο εν τη φυλακη προσευχη δε ην εκτενης γινομενη υπο της εκκλησιας προς τον θεον υπερ αυτου
Acts 12:5 Peter therefore was kept in prison: but prayer was made without ceasing of the church unto God for him.
Acts 12:6 οτε δε εμελλεν αυτον προαγειν ο ηρωδης τη νυκτι εκεινη ην ο πετρος κοιμωμενος μεταξυ δυο στρατιωτων δεδεμενος αλυσεσιν δυσιν φυλακες τε προ της θυρας ετηρουν την φυλακην
Acts 12:6 And when Herod would have brought him forth, the same night Peter was sleeping between two soldiers, bound with two chains: and the keepers before the door kept the prison.
Acts 12:7 και ιδου αγγελος κυριου επεστη και φως ελαμψεν εν τω οικηματι παταξας δε την πλευραν του πετρου ηγειρεν αυτον λεγων αναστα εν ταχει και εξεπεσον αυτου αι αλυσεις εκ των χειρων
Acts 12:7 And, behold, the angel of the Lord came upon him, and a light shined in the prison: and he smote Peter on the side, and raised him up, saying, Arise up quickly. And his chains fell off from his hands.
Acts 12:8 ειπεν τε ο αγγελος προς αυτον περιζωσαι και υποδησαι τα σανδαλια σου εποιησεν δε ουτως και λεγει αυτω περιβαλου το ιματιον σου και ακολουθει μοι
Acts 12:8 And the angel said unto him, Gird thyself, and bind on thy sandals. And so he did. And he saith unto him, Cast thy garment about thee, and follow me.
Acts 12:9 και εξελθων ηκολουθει αυτω και ουκ ηδει οτι αληθες εστιν το γινομενον δια του αγγελου εδοκει δε οραμα βλεπειν
Acts 12:9 And he went out, and followed him; and wist not that it was true which was done by the angel; but thought he saw a vision.
Acts 12:10 διελθοντες δε πρωτην φυλακην και δευτεραν ηλθον επι την πυλην την σιδηραν την φερουσαν εις την πολιν ητις αυτοματη ηνοιχθη αυτοις και εξελθοντες προηλθον ρυμην μιαν και ευθεως απεστη ο αγγελος απ αυτου
Acts 12:10 When they were past the first and the second ward, they came unto the iron gate that leadeth unto the city; which opened to them of his own accord: and they went out, and passed on through one street; and forthwith the angel departed from him.
Acts 12:11 και ο πετρος γενομενος εν εαυτω ειπεν νυν οιδα αληθως οτι εξαπεστειλεν κυριος τον αγγελον αυτου και εξειλετο με εκ χειρος ηρωδου και πασης της προσδοκιας του λαου των ιουδαιων
Acts 12:11 And when Peter was come to himself, he said, Now I know of a surety, that the LORD hath sent his angel, and hath delivered me out of the hand of Herod, and from all the expectation of the people of the Jews.
Acts 12:12 συνιδων τε ηλθεν επι την οικιαν μαριας της μητρος ιωαννου του επικαλουμενου μαρκου ου ησαν ικανοι συνηθροισμενοι και προσευχομενοι
Acts 12:12 And when he had considered the thing, he came to the house of Mary the mother of John, whose surname was Mark; where many were gathered together praying.
Acts 12:13 κρουσαντος δε του πετρου την θυραν του πυλωνος προσηλθεν παιδισκη υπακουσαι ονοματι ροδη
Acts 12:13 And as Peter knocked at the door of the gate, a damsel came to hearken, named Rhoda.
Acts 12:14 και επιγνουσα την φωνην του πετρου απο της χαρας ουκ ηνοιξεν τον πυλωνα εισδραμουσα δε απηγγειλεν εσταναι τον πετρον προ του πυλωνος
Acts 12:14 And when she knew Peter's voice, she opened not the gate for gladness, but ran in, and told how Peter stood before the gate.
Acts 12:15 οι δε προς αυτην ειπον μαινη η δε διισχυριζετο ουτως εχειν οι δ ελεγον ο αγγελος αυτου εστιν
Acts 12:15 And they said unto her, Thou art mad. But she constantly affirmed that it was even so. Then said they, It is his angel.
Acts 12:16 ο δε πετρος επεμενεν κρουων ανοιξαντες δε ειδον αυτον και εξεστησαν
Acts 12:16 But Peter continued knocking: and when they had opened the door, and saw him, they were astonished.
Acts 12:17 κατασεισας δε αυτοις τη χειρι σιγαν διηγησατο αυτοις πως ο κυριος αυτον εξηγαγεν εκ της φυλακης ειπεν δε απαγγειλατε ιακωβω και τοις αδελφοις ταυτα και εξελθων επορευθη εις ετερον τοπον
Acts 12:17 But he, beckoning unto them with the hand to hold their peace, declared unto them how the Lord had brought him out of the prison. And he said, Go shew these things unto James, and to the brethren. And he departed, and went into another place.
Acts 12:18 γενομενης δε ημερας ην ταραχος ουκ ολιγος εν τοις στρατιωταις τι αρα ο πετρος εγενετο
Acts 12:18 Now as soon as it was day, there was no small stir among the soldiers, what was become of Peter.
Acts 12:19 ηρωδης δε επιζητησας αυτον και μη ευρων ανακρινας τους φυλακας εκελευσεν απαχθηναι και κατελθων απο της ιουδαιας εις την καισαρειαν διετριβεν
Acts 12:19 And when Herod had sought for him, and found him not, he examined the keepers, and commanded that they should be put to death. And he went down from Judaea to Caesarea, and there abode.
Acts 12:20 ην δε ο ηρωδης θυμομαχων τυριοις και σιδωνιοις ομοθυμαδον δε παρησαν προς αυτον και πεισαντες βλαστον τον επι του κοιτωνος του βασιλεως ητουντο ειρηνην δια το τρεφεσθαι αυτων την χωραν απο της βασιλικης
Acts 12:20 And Herod was highly displeased with them of Tyre and Sidon: but they came with one accord to him, and, having made Blastus the king's chamberlain their friend, desired peace; because their country was nourished by the king's country.
Acts 12:21 τακτη δε ημερα ο ηρωδης ενδυσαμενος εσθητα βασιλικην και καθισας επι του βηματος εδημηγορει προς αυτους
Acts 12:21 And upon a set day Herod, arrayed in royal apparel, sat upon his throne, and made an oration unto them.
Acts 12:22 ο δε δημος επεφωνει θεου φωνη και ουκ ανθρωπου
Acts 12:22 And the people gave a shout, saying, It is the voice of a god, and not of a man.
Acts 12:23 παραχρημα δε επαταξεν αυτον αγγελος κυριου ανθ ων ουκ εδωκεν την δοξαν τω θεω και γενομενος σκωληκοβρωτος εξεψυξεν
Acts 12:23 And immediately the angel of the Lord smote him, because he gave not God the glory: and he was eaten of worms, and gave up the ghost.
Acts 12:24 ο δε λογος του θεου ηυξανεν και επληθυνετο
Acts 12:24 But the word of God grew and multiplied.
Acts 12:25 βαρναβας δε και σαυλος υπεστρεψαν εξ ιερουσαλημ πληρωσαντες την διακονιαν συμπαραλαβοντες και ιωαννην τον επικληθεντα μαρκον
Acts 12:25 And Barnabas and Saul returned from Jerusalem, when they had fulfilled their ministry, and took with them John, whose surname was Mark.
Acts 13:1 ησαν δε τινες εν αντιοχεια κατα την ουσαν εκκλησιαν προφηται και διδασκαλοι ο τε βαρναβας και συμεων ο καλουμενος νιγερ και λουκιος ο κυρηναιος μαναην τε ηρωδου του τετραρχου συντροφος και σαυλος
Acts 13:1 Now there were in the church that was at Antioch certain prophets and teachers; as Barnabas, and Simeon that was called Niger, and Lucius of Cyrene, and Manaen, which had been brought up with Herod the tetrarch, and Saul.
Acts 13:2 λειτουργουντων δε αυτων τω κυριω και νηστευοντων ειπεν το πνευμα το αγιον αφορισατε δη μοι τον τε βαρναβαν και τον σαυλον εις το εργον ο προσκεκλημαι αυτους
Acts 13:2 As they ministered to the Lord, and fasted, the Holy Ghost said, Separate me Barnabas and Saul for the work whereunto I have called them.
Acts 13:3 τοτε νηστευσαντες και προσευξαμενοι και επιθεντες τας χειρας αυτοις απελυσαν
Acts 13:3 And when they had fasted and prayed, and laid their hands on them, they sent them away.
Acts 13:4 ουτοι μεν ουν εκπεμφθεντες υπο του πνευματος του αγιου κατηλθον εις την σελευκειαν εκειθεν τε απεπλευσαν εις την κυπρον
Acts 13:4 So they, being sent forth by the Holy Ghost, departed unto Seleucia; and from thence they sailed to Cyprus.
Acts 13:5 και γενομενοι εν σαλαμινι κατηγγελλον τον λογον του θεου εν ταις συναγωγαις των ιουδαιων ειχον δε και ιωαννην υπηρετην
Acts 13:5 And when they were at Salamis, they preached the word of God in the synagogues of the Jews: and they had also John to their minister.
Acts 13:6 διελθοντες δε την νησον αχρι παφου ευρον τινα μαγον ψευδοπροφητην ιουδαιον ω ονομα βαριησους
Acts 13:6 And when they had gone through the isle unto Paphos, they found a certain sorcerer, a false prophet, a Jew, whose name was Barjesus:
Acts 13:7 ος ην συν τω ανθυπατω σεργιω παυλω ανδρι συνετω ουτος προσκαλεσαμενος βαρναβαν και σαυλον επεζητησεν ακουσαι τον λογον του θεου
Acts 13:7 Which was with the deputy of the country, Sergius Paulus, a prudent man; who called for Barnabas and Saul, and desired to hear the word of God.
Acts 13:8 ανθιστατο δε αυτοις ελυμας ο μαγος ουτως γαρ μεθερμηνευεται το ονομα αυτου ζητων διαστρεψαι τον ανθυπατον απο της πιστεως
Acts 13:8 But Elymas the sorcerer (for so is his name by interpretation) withstood them, seeking to turn away the deputy from the faith.
Acts 13:9 σαυλος δε ο και παυλος πλησθεις πνευματος αγιου και ατενισας εις αυτον
Acts 13:9 Then Saul, (who also is called Paul,) filled with the Holy Ghost, set his eyes on him.
Acts 13:10 ειπεν ω πληρης παντος δολου και πασης ραδιουργιας υιε διαβολου εχθρε πασης δικαιοσυνης ου παυση διαστρεφων τας οδους κυριου τας ευθειας
Acts 13:10 And said, O full of all subtilty and all mischief, thou child of the devil, thou enemy of all righteousness, wilt thou not cease to pervert the right ways of the Lord?
Acts 13:11 και νυν ιδου χειρ του κυριου επι σε και εση τυφλος μη βλεπων τον ηλιον αχρι καιρου παραχρημα δε επεπεσεν επ αυτον αχλυς και σκοτος και περιαγων εζητει χειραγωγους
Acts 13:11 And now, behold, the hand of the Lord is upon thee, and thou shalt be blind, not seeing the sun for a season. And immediately there fell on him a mist and a darkness; and he went about seeking some to lead him by the hand.
Acts 13:12 τοτε ιδων ο ανθυπατος το γεγονος επιστευσεν εκπλησσομενος επι τη διδαχη του κυριου
Acts 13:12 Then the deputy, when he saw what was done, believed, being astonished at the doctrine of the Lord.
Acts 13:13 αναχθεντες δε απο της παφου οι περι τον παυλον ηλθον εις περγην της παμφυλιας ιωαννης δε αποχωρησας απ αυτων υπεστρεψεν εις ιεροσολυμα
Acts 13:13 Now when Paul and his company loosed from Paphos, they came to Perga in Pamphylia: and John departing from them returned to Jerusalem.
Acts 13:14 αυτοι δε διελθοντες απο της περγης παρεγενοντο εις αντιοχειαν της πισιδιας και εισελθοντες εις την συναγωγην τη ημερα των σαββατων εκαθισαν
Acts 13:14 But when they departed from Perga, they came to Antioch in Pisidia, and went into the synagogue on the sabbath day, and sat down.
Acts 13:15 μετα δε την αναγνωσιν του νομου και των προφητων απεστειλαν οι αρχισυναγωγοι προς αυτους λεγοντες ανδρες αδελφοι ει εστιν λογος εν υμιν παρακλησεως προς τον λαον λεγετε
Acts 13:15 And after the reading of the law and the prophets the rulers of the synagogue sent unto them, saying, Ye men and brethren, if ye have any word of exhortation for the people, say on.
Acts 13:16 αναστας δε παυλος και κατασεισας τη χειρι ειπεν ανδρες ισραηλιται και οι φοβουμενοι τον θεον ακουσατε
Acts 13:16 Then Paul stood up, and beckoning with his hand said, Men of Israel, and ye that fear God, give audience.
Acts 13:17 ο θεος του λαου τουτου ισραηλ εξελεξατο τους πατερας ημων και τον λαον υψωσεν εν τη παροικια εν γη αιγυπτω και μετα βραχιονος υψηλου εξηγαγεν αυτους εξ αυτης
Acts 13:17 The God of this people of Israel chose our fathers, and exalted the people when they dwelt as strangers in the land of Egypt, and with an high arm brought he them out of it.
Acts 13:18 και ως τεσσαρακονταετη χρονον ετροποφορησεν αυτους εν τη ερημω
Acts 13:18 And about the time of forty years suffered he their manners in the wilderness.
Acts 13:19 και καθελων εθνη επτα εν γη χανααν κατεκληροδοτησεν αυτοις την γην αυτων
Acts 13:19 And when he had destroyed seven nations in the land of Chanaan, he divided their land to them by lot.
Acts 13:20 και μετα ταυτα ως ετεσιν τετρακοσιοις και πεντηκοντα εδωκεν κριτας εως σαμουηλ του προφητου
Acts 13:20 And after that he gave unto them judges about the space of four hundred and fifty years, until Samuel the prophet.
Acts 13:21 κακειθεν ητησαντο βασιλεα και εδωκεν αυτοις ο θεος τον σαουλ υιον κις ανδρα εκ φυλης βενιαμιν ετη τεσσαρακοντα
Acts 13:21 And afterward they desired a king: and God gave unto them Saul the son of Cis, a man of the tribe of Benjamin, by the space of forty years.
Acts 13:22 και μεταστησας αυτον ηγειρεν αυτοις τον δαβιδ εις βασιλεα ω και ειπεν μαρτυρησας ευρον δαβιδ τον του ιεσσαι ανδρα κατα την καρδιαν μου ος ποιησει παντα τα θεληματα μου
Acts 13:22 And when he had removed him, he raised up unto them David to be their king; to whom also he gave their testimony, and said, I have found David the son of Jesse, a man after mine own heart, which shall fulfil all my will.
Acts 13:23 τουτου ο θεος απο του σπερματος κατ επαγγελιαν ηγειρεν τω ισραηλ σωτηρα ιησουν
Acts 13:23 Of this man's seed hath God according to his promise raised unto Israel a Saviour, Jesus:
Acts 13:24 προκηρυξαντος ιωαννου προ προσωπου της εισοδου αυτου βαπτισμα μετανοιας παντι τω λαω ισραηλ
Acts 13:24 When John had first preached before his coming the baptism of repentance to all the people of Israel.
Acts 13:25 ως δε επληρου ο ιωαννης τον δρομον ελεγεν τινα με υπονοειτε ειναι ουκ ειμι εγω αλλ ιδου ερχεται μετ εμε ου ουκ ειμι αξιος το υποδημα των ποδων λυσαι
Acts 13:25 And as John fulfilled his course, he said, Whom think ye that I am? I am not he. But, behold, there cometh one after me, whose shoes of his feet I am not worthy to loose.
Acts 13:26 ανδρες αδελφοι υιοι γενους αβρααμ και οι εν υμιν φοβουμενοι τον θεον υμιν ο λογος της σωτηριας ταυτης απεσταλη
Acts 13:26 Men and brethren, children of the stock of Abraham, and whosoever among you feareth God, to you is the word of this salvation sent.
Acts 13:27 οι γαρ κατοικουντες εν ιερουσαλημ και οι αρχοντες αυτων τουτον αγνοησαντες και τας φωνας των προφητων τας κατα παν σαββατον αναγινωσκομενας κριναντες επληρωσαν
Acts 13:27 For they that dwell at Jerusalem, and their rulers, because they knew him not, nor yet the voices of the prophets which are read every sabbath day, they have fulfilled them in condemning him.
Acts 13:28 και μηδεμιαν αιτιαν θανατου ευροντες ητησαντο πιλατον αναιρεθηναι αυτον
Acts 13:28 And though they found no cause of death in him, yet desired they Pilate that he should be slain.
Acts 13:29 ως δε ετελεσαν απαντα τα περι αυτου γεγραμμενα καθελοντες απο του ξυλου εθηκαν εις μνημειον
Acts 13:29 And when they had fulfilled all that was written of him, they took him down from the tree, and laid him in a sepulchre.
Acts 13:30 ο δε θεος ηγειρεν αυτον εκ νεκρων
Acts 13:30 But God raised him from the dead:
Acts 13:31 ος ωφθη επι ημερας πλειους τοις συναναβασιν αυτω απο της γαλιλαιας εις ιερουσαλημ οιτινες εισιν μαρτυρες αυτου προς τον λαον
Acts 13:31 And he was seen many days of them which came up with him from Galilee to Jerusalem, who are his witnesses unto the people.
Acts 13:32 και ημεις υμας ευαγγελιζομεθα την προς τους πατερας επαγγελιαν γενομενην οτι ταυτην ο θεος εκπεπληρωκεν τοις τεκνοις αυτων ημιν αναστησας ιησουν
Acts 13:32 And we declare unto you glad tidings, how that the promise which was made unto the fathers,
Acts 13:33 ως και εν τω ψαλμω τω δευτερω γεγραπται υιος μου ει συ εγω σημερον γεγεννηκα σε
Acts 13:33 God hath fulfilled the same unto us their children, in that he hath raised up Jesus again; as it is also written in the second psalm, Thou art my Son, this day have I begotten thee.
Acts 13:34 οτι δε ανεστησεν αυτον εκ νεκρων μηκετι μελλοντα υποστρεφειν εις διαφθοραν ουτως ειρηκεν οτι δωσω υμιν τα οσια δαβιδ τα πιστα
Acts 13:34 And as concerning that he raised him up from the dead, now no more to return to corruption, he said on this wise, I will give you the sure mercies of David.
Acts 13:35 διο και εν ετερω λεγει ου δωσεις τον οσιον σου ιδειν διαφθοραν
Acts 13:35 Wherefore he saith also in another psalm, Thou shalt not suffer thine Holy One to see corruption.
Acts 13:36 δαβιδ μεν γαρ ιδια γενεα υπηρετησας τη του θεου βουλη εκοιμηθη και προσετεθη προς τους πατερας αυτου και ειδεν διαφθοραν
Acts 13:36 For David, after he had served his own generation by the will of God, fell on sleep, and was laid unto his fathers, and saw corruption:
Acts 13:37 ον δε ο θεος ηγειρεν ουκ ειδεν διαφθοραν
Acts 13:37 But he, whom God raised again, saw no corruption.
Acts 13:38 γνωστον ουν εστω υμιν ανδρες αδελφοι οτι δια τουτου υμιν αφεσις αμαρτιων καταγγελλεται
Acts 13:38 Be it known unto you therefore, men and brethren, that through this man is preached unto you the forgiveness of sins:
Acts 13:39 και απο παντων ων ουκ ηδυνηθητε εν τω νομω μωσεως δικαιωθηναι εν τουτω πας ο πιστευων δικαιουται
Acts 13:39 And by him all that believe are justified from all things, from which ye could not be justified by the law of Moses.
Acts 13:40 βλεπετε ουν μη επελθη εφ υμας το ειρημενον εν τοις προφηταις
Acts 13:40 Beware therefore, lest that come upon you, which is spoken of in the prophets;
Acts 13:41 ιδετε οι καταφρονηται και θαυμασατε και αφανισθητε οτι εργον εγω εργαζομαι εν ταις ημεραις υμων εργον ω ου μη πιστευσητε εαν τις εκδιηγηται υμιν
Acts 13:41 Behold, ye despisers, and wonder, and perish: for I work a work in your days, a work which ye shall in no wise believe, though a man declare it unto you.
Acts 13:42 εξιοντων δε εκ της συναγωγης των ιουδαιων παρεκαλουν τα εθνη εις το μεταξυ σαββατον λαληθηναι αυτοις τα ρηματα ταυτα
Acts 13:42 And when the Jews were gone out of the synagogue, the Gentiles besought that these words might be preached to them the next sabbath.
Acts 13:43 λυθεισης δε της συναγωγης ηκολουθησαν πολλοι των ιουδαιων και των σεβομενων προσηλυτων τω παυλω και τω βαρναβα οιτινες προσλαλουντες αυτοις επειθον αυτους επιμενειν τη χαριτι του θεου
Acts 13:43 Now when the congregation was broken up, many of the Jews and religious proselytes followed Paul and Barnabas: who, speaking to them, persuaded them to continue in the grace of God.
Acts 13:44 τω δε ερχομενω σαββατω σχεδον πασα η πολις συνηχθη ακουσαι τον λογον του θεου
Acts 13:44 And the next sabbath day came almost the whole city together to hear the word of God.
Acts 13:45 ιδοντες δε οι ιουδαιοι τους οχλους επλησθησαν ζηλου και αντελεγον τοις υπο του παυλου λεγομενοις αντιλεγοντες και βλασφημουντες
Acts 13:45 But when the Jews saw the multitudes, they were filled with envy, and spake against those things which were spoken by Paul, contradicting and blaspheming.
Acts 13:46 παρρησιασαμενοι δε ο παυλος και ο βαρναβας ειπον υμιν ην αναγκαιον πρωτον λαληθηναι τον λογον του θεου επειδη δε απωθεισθε αυτον και ουκ αξιους κρινετε εαυτους της αιωνιου ζωης ιδου στρεφομεθα εις τα εθνη
Acts 13:46 Then Paul and Barnabas waxed bold, and said, It was necessary that the word of God should first have been spoken to you: but seeing ye put it from you, and judge yourselves unworthy of everlasting life, lo, we turn to the Gentiles.
Acts 13:47 ουτως γαρ εντεταλται ημιν ο κυριος τεθεικα σε εις φως εθνων του ειναι σε εις σωτηριαν εως εσχατου της γης
Acts 13:47 For so hath the Lord commanded us, saying, I have set thee to be a light of the Gentiles, that thou shouldest be for salvation unto the ends of the earth.
Acts 13:48 ακουοντα δε τα εθνη εχαιρον και εδοξαζον τον λογον του κυριου και επιστευσαν οσοι ησαν τεταγμενοι εις ζωην αιωνιον
Acts 13:48 And when the Gentiles heard this, they were glad, and glorified the word of the Lord: and as many as were ordained to eternal life believed.
Acts 13:49 διεφερετο δε ο λογος του κυριου δι ολης της χωρας
Acts 13:49 And the word of the Lord was published throughout all the region.
Acts 13:50 οι δε ιουδαιοι παρωτρυναν τας σεβομενας γυναικας και τας ευσχημονας και τους πρωτους της πολεως και επηγειραν διωγμον επι τον παυλον και τον βαρναβαν και εξεβαλον αυτους απο των οριων αυτων
Acts 13:50 But the Jews stirred up the devout and honourable women, and the chief men of the city, and raised persecution against Paul and Barnabas, and expelled them out of their coasts.
Acts 13:51 οι δε εκτιναξαμενοι τον κονιορτον των ποδων αυτων επ αυτους ηλθον εις ικονιον
Acts 13:51 But they shook off the dust of their feet against them, and came unto Iconium.
Acts 13:52 οι δε μαθηται επληρουντο χαρας και πνευματος αγιου
Acts 13:52 And the disciples were filled with joy, and with the Holy Ghost.
Acts 14:1 εγενετο δε εν ικονιω κατα το αυτο εισελθειν αυτους εις την συναγωγην των ιουδαιων και λαλησαι ουτως ωστε πιστευσαι ιουδαιων τε και ελληνων πολυ πληθος
Acts 14:1 And it came to pass in Iconium, that they went both together into the synagogue of the Jews, and so spake, that a great multitude both of the Jews and also of the Greeks believed.
Acts 14:2 οι δε απειθουντες ιουδαιοι επηγειραν και εκακωσαν τας ψυχας των εθνων κατα των αδελφων
Acts 14:2 But the unbelieving Jews stirred up the Gentiles, and made their minds evil affected against the brethren.
Acts 14:3 ικανον μεν ουν χρονον διετριψαν παρρησιαζομενοι επι τω κυριω τω μαρτυρουντι τω λογω της χαριτος αυτου και διδοντι σημεια και τερατα γινεσθαι δια των χειρων αυτων
Acts 14:3 Long time therefore abode they speaking boldly in the Lord, which gave testimony unto the word of his grace, and granted signs and wonders to be done by their hands.
Acts 14:4 εσχισθη δε το πληθος της πολεως και οι μεν ησαν συν τοις ιουδαιοις οι δε συν τοις αποστολοις
Acts 14:4 But the multitude of the city was divided: and part held with the Jews, and part with the apostles.
Acts 14:5 ως δε εγενετο ορμη των εθνων τε και ιουδαιων συν τοις αρχουσιν αυτων υβρισαι και λιθοβολησαι αυτους
Acts 14:5 And when there was an assault made both of the Gentiles, and also of the Jews with their rulers, to use them despitefully, and to stone them,
Acts 14:6 συνιδοντες κατεφυγον εις τας πολεις της λυκαονιας λυστραν και δερβην και την περιχωρον
Acts 14:6 They were ware of it, and fled unto Lystra and Derbe, cities of Lycaonia, and unto the region that lieth round about:
Acts 14:7 κακει ησαν ευαγγελιζομενοι
Acts 14:7 And there they preached the gospel.
Acts 14:8 και τις ανηρ εν λυστροις αδυνατος τοις ποσιν εκαθητο χωλος εκ κοιλιας μητρος αυτου υπαρχων ος ουδεποτε περιπεπατηκει
Acts 14:8 And there sat a certain man at Lystra, impotent in his feet, being a cripple from his mother's womb, who never had walked:
Acts 14:9 ουτος ηκουεν του παυλου λαλουντος ος ατενισας αυτω και ιδων οτι πιστιν εχει του σωθηναι
Acts 14:9 The same heard Paul speak: who stedfastly beholding him, and perceiving that he had faith to be healed,
Acts 14:10 ειπεν μεγαλη τη φωνη αναστηθι επι τους ποδας σου ορθος και ηλλετο και περιεπατει
Acts 14:10 Said with a loud voice, Stand upright on thy feet. And he leaped and walked.
Acts 14:11 οι δε οχλοι ιδοντες ο εποιησεν ο παυλος επηραν την φωνην αυτων λυκαονιστι λεγοντες οι θεοι ομοιωθεντες ανθρωποις κατεβησαν προς ημας
Acts 14:11 And when the people saw what Paul had done, they lifted up their voices, saying in the speech of Lycaonia, The gods are come down to us in the likeness of men.
Acts 14:12 εκαλουν τε τον μεν βαρναβαν δια τον δε παυλον ερμην επειδη αυτος ην ο ηγουμενος του λογου
Acts 14:12 And they called Barnabas, Jupiter; and Paul, Mercurius, because he was the chief speaker.
Acts 14:13 ο δε ιερευς του διος του οντος προ της πολεως αυτων ταυρους και στεμματα επι τους πυλωνας ενεγκας συν τοις οχλοις ηθελεν θυειν
Acts 14:13 Then the priest of Jupiter, which was before their city, brought oxen and garlands unto the gates, and would have done sacrifice with the people.
Acts 14:14 ακουσαντες δε οι αποστολοι βαρναβας και παυλος διαρρηξαντες τα ιματια αυτων εισεπηδησαν εις τον οχλον κραζοντες
Acts 14:14 Which when the apostles, Barnabas and Paul, heard of, they rent their clothes, and ran in among the people, crying out,
Acts 14:15 και λεγοντες ανδρες τι ταυτα ποιειτε και ημεις ομοιοπαθεις εσμεν υμιν ανθρωποι ευαγγελιζομενοι υμας απο τουτων των ματαιων επιστρεφειν επι τον θεον τον ζωντα ος εποιησεν τον ουρανον και την γην και την θαλασσαν και παντα τα εν αυτοις
Acts 14:15 And saying, Sirs, why do ye these things? We also are men of like passions with you, and preach unto you that ye should turn from these vanities unto the living God, which made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and all things that are therein:
Acts 14:16 ος εν ταις παρωχημεναις γενεαις ειασεν παντα τα εθνη πορευεσθαι ταις οδοις αυτων
Acts 14:16 Who in times past suffered all nations to walk in their own ways.
Acts 14:17 και τοι γε ουκ αμαρτυρον εαυτον αφηκεν αγαθοποιων ουρανοθεν ημιν υετους διδους και καιρους καρποφορους εμπιπλων τροφης και ευφροσυνης τας καρδιας ημων
Acts 14:17 Nevertheless he left not himself without witness, in that he did good, and gave us rain from heaven, and fruitful seasons, filling our hearts with food and gladness.
Acts 14:18 και ταυτα λεγοντες μολις κατεπαυσαν τους οχλους του μη θυειν αυτοις
Acts 14:18 And with these sayings scarce restrained they the people, that they had not done sacrifice unto them.
Acts 14:19 επηλθον δε απο αντιοχειας και ικονιου ιουδαιοι και πεισαντες τους οχλους και λιθασαντες τον παυλον εσυρον εξω της πολεως νομισαντες αυτον τεθναναι
Acts 14:19 And there came thither certain Jews from Antioch and Iconium, who persuaded the people, and having stoned Paul, drew him out of the city, supposing he had been dead.
Acts 14:20 κυκλωσαντων δε αυτον των μαθητων αναστας εισηλθεν εις την πολιν και τη επαυριον εξηλθεν συν τω βαρναβα εις δερβην
Acts 14:20 Howbeit, as the disciples stood round about him, he rose up, and came into the city: and the next day he departed with Barnabas to Derbe.
Acts 14:21 ευαγγελισαμενοι τε την πολιν εκεινην και μαθητευσαντες ικανους υπεστρεψαν εις την λυστραν και ικονιον και αντιοχειαν
Acts 14:21 And when they had preached the gospel to that city, and had taught many, they returned again to Lystra, and to Iconium, and Antioch,
Acts 14:22 επιστηριζοντες τας ψυχας των μαθητων παρακαλουντες εμμενειν τη πιστει και οτι δια πολλων θλιψεων δει ημας εισελθειν εις την βασιλειαν του θεου
Acts 14:22 Confirming the souls of the disciples, and exhorting them to continue in the faith, and that we must through much tribulation enter into the kingdom of God.
Acts 14:23 χειροτονησαντες δε αυτοις πρεσβυτερους κατ εκκλησιαν προσευξαμενοι μετα νηστειων παρεθεντο αυτους τω κυριω εις ον πεπιστευκεισαν
Acts 14:23 And when they had ordained them elders in every church, and had prayed with fasting, they commended them to the Lord, on whom they believed.
Acts 14:24 και διελθοντες την πισιδιαν ηλθον εις παμφυλιαν
Acts 14:24 And after they had passed throughout Pisidia, they came to Pamphylia.
Acts 14:25 και λαλησαντες εν περγη τον λογον κατεβησαν εις ατταλειαν
Acts 14:25 And when they had preached the word in Perga, they went down into Attalia:
Acts 14:26 κακειθεν απεπλευσαν εις αντιοχειαν οθεν ησαν παραδεδομενοι τη χαριτι του θεου εις το εργον ο επληρωσαν
Acts 14:26 And thence sailed to Antioch, from whence they had been recommended to the grace of God for the work which they fulfilled.
Acts 14:27 παραγενομενοι δε και συναγαγοντες την εκκλησιαν ανηγγειλαν οσα εποιησεν ο θεος μετ αυτων και οτι ηνοιξεν τοις εθνεσιν θυραν πιστεως
Acts 14:27 And when they were come, and had gathered the church together, they rehearsed all that God had done with them, and how he had opened the door of faith unto the Gentiles.
Acts 14:28 διετριβον δε εκει χρονον ουκ ολιγον συν τοις μαθηταις
Acts 14:28 And there they abode long time with the disciples.
Acts 15:1 και τινες κατελθοντες απο της ιουδαιας εδιδασκον τους αδελφους οτι εαν μη περιτεμνησθε τω εθει μωυσεως ου δυνασθε σωθηναι
Acts 15:1 And certain men which came down from Judaea taught the brethren, and said, Except ye be circumcised after the manner of Moses, ye cannot be saved.
Acts 15:2 γενομενης ουν στασεως και συζητησεως ουκ ολιγης τω παυλω και τω βαρναβα προς αυτους εταξαν αναβαινειν παυλον και βαρναβαν και τινας αλλους εξ αυτων προς τους αποστολους και πρεσβυτερους εις ιερουσαλημ περι του ζητηματος τουτου
Acts 15:2 When therefore Paul and Barnabas had no small dissension and disputation with them, they determined that Paul and Barnabas, and certain other of them, should go up to Jerusalem unto the apostles and elders about this question.
Acts 15:3 οι μεν ουν προπεμφθεντες υπο της εκκλησιας διηρχοντο την φοινικην και σαμαρειαν εκδιηγουμενοι την επιστροφην των εθνων και εποιουν χαραν μεγαλην πασιν τοις αδελφοις
Acts 15:3 And being brought on their way by the church, they passed through Phenice and Samaria, declaring the conversion of the Gentiles: and they caused great joy unto all the brethren.
Acts 15:4 παραγενομενοι δε εις ιερουσαλημ απεδεχθησαν υπο της εκκλησιας και των αποστολων και των πρεσβυτερων ανηγγειλαν τε οσα ο θεος εποιησεν μετ αυτων
Acts 15:4 And when they were come to Jerusalem, they were received of the church, and of the apostles and elders, and they declared all things that God had done with them.
Acts 15:5 εξανεστησαν δε τινες των απο της αιρεσεως των φαρισαιων πεπιστευκοτες λεγοντες οτι δει περιτεμνειν αυτους παραγγελλειν τε τηρειν τον νομον μωυσεως
Acts 15:5 But there rose up certain of the sect of the Pharisees which believed, saying, That it was needful to circumcise them, and to command them to keep the law of Moses.
Acts 15:6 συνηχθησαν δε οι αποστολοι και οι πρεσβυτεροι ιδειν περι του λογου τουτου
Acts 15:6 And the apostles and elders came together for to consider of this matter.
Acts 15:7 πολλης δε συζητησεως γενομενης αναστας πετρος ειπεν προς αυτους ανδρες αδελφοι υμεις επιστασθε οτι αφ ημερων αρχαιων ο θεος εν ημιν εξελεξατο δια του στοματος μου ακουσαι τα εθνη τον λογον του ευαγγελιου και πιστευσαι
Acts 15:7 And when there had been much disputing, Peter rose up, and said unto them, Men and brethren, ye know how that a good while ago God made choice among us, that the Gentiles by my mouth should hear the word of the gospel, and believe.
Acts 15:8 και ο καρδιογνωστης θεος εμαρτυρησεν αυτοις δους αυτοις το πνευμα το αγιον καθως και ημιν
Acts 15:8 And God, which knoweth the hearts, bare them witness, giving them the Holy Ghost, even as he did unto us;
Acts 15:9 και ουδεν διεκρινεν μεταξυ ημων τε και αυτων τη πιστει καθαρισας τας καρδιας αυτων
Acts 15:9 And put no difference between us and them, purifying their hearts by faith.
Acts 15:10 νυν ουν τι πειραζετε τον θεον επιθειναι ζυγον επι τον τραχηλον των μαθητων ον ουτε οι πατερες ημων ουτε ημεις ισχυσαμεν βαστασαι
Acts 15:10 Now therefore why tempt ye God, to put a yoke upon the neck of the disciples, which neither our fathers nor we were able to bear?
Acts 15:11 αλλα δια της χαριτος κυριου ιησου χριστου πιστευομεν σωθηναι καθ ον τροπον κακεινοι
Acts 15:11 But we believe that through the grace of the LORD Jesus Christ we shall be saved, even as they.
Acts 15:12 εσιγησεν δε παν το πληθος και ηκουον βαρναβα και παυλου εξηγουμενων οσα εποιησεν ο θεος σημεια και τερατα εν τοις εθνεσιν δι αυτων
Acts 15:12 Then all the multitude kept silence, and gave audience to Barnabas and Paul, declaring what miracles and wonders God had wrought among the Gentiles by them.
Acts 15:13 μετα δε το σιγησαι αυτους απεκριθη ιακωβος λεγων ανδρες αδελφοι ακουσατε μου
Acts 15:13 And after they had held their peace, James answered, saying, Men and brethren, hearken unto me:
Acts 15:14 συμεων εξηγησατο καθως πρωτον ο θεος επεσκεψατο λαβειν εξ εθνων λαον επι τω ονοματι αυτου
Acts 15:14 Simeon hath declared how God at the first did visit the Gentiles, to take out of them a people for his name.
Acts 15:15 και τουτω συμφωνουσιν οι λογοι των προφητων καθως γεγραπται
Acts 15:15 And to this agree the words of the prophets; as it is written,
Acts 15:16 μετα ταυτα αναστρεψω και ανοικοδομησω την σκηνην δαβιδ την πεπτωκυιαν και τα κατεσκαμμενα αυτης ανοικοδομησω και ανορθωσω αυτην
Acts 15:16 After this I will return, and will build again the tabernacle of David, which is fallen down; and I will build again the ruins thereof, and I will set it up:
Acts 15:17 οπως αν εκζητησωσιν οι καταλοιποι των ανθρωπων τον κυριον και παντα τα εθνη εφ ους επικεκληται το ονομα μου επ αυτους λεγει κυριος ο ποιων ταυτα παντα
Acts 15:17 That the residue of men might seek after the Lord, and all the Gentiles, upon whom my name is called, saith the Lord, who doeth all these things.
Acts 15:18 γνωστα απ αιωνος εστιν τω θεω παντα τα εργα αυτου
Acts 15:18 Known unto God are all his works from the beginning of the world.
Acts 15:19 διο εγω κρινω μη παρενοχλειν τοις απο των εθνων επιστρεφουσιν επι τον θεον
Acts 15:19 Wherefore my sentence is, that we trouble not them, which from among the Gentiles are turned to God:
Acts 15:20 αλλα επιστειλαι αυτοις του απεχεσθαι απο των αλισγηματων των ειδωλων και της πορνειας και του πνικτου και του αιματος
Acts 15:20 But that we write unto them, that they abstain from pollutions of idols, and from fornication, and from things strangled, and from blood.
Acts 15:21 μωσης γαρ εκ γενεων αρχαιων κατα πολιν τους κηρυσσοντας αυτον εχει εν ταις συναγωγαις κατα παν σαββατον αναγινωσκομενος
Acts 15:21 For Moses of old time hath in every city them that preach him, being read in the synagogues every sabbath day.
Acts 15:22 τοτε εδοξεν τοις αποστολοις και τοις πρεσβυτεροις συν ολη τη εκκλησια εκλεξαμενους ανδρας εξ αυτων πεμψαι εις αντιοχειαν συν τω παυλω και βαρναβα ιουδαν τον επικαλουμενον βαρσαβαν και σιλαν ανδρας ηγουμενους εν τοις αδελφοις
Acts 15:22 Then pleased it the apostles and elders with the whole church, to send chosen men of their own company to Antioch with Paul and Barnabas; namely, Judas surnamed Barsabas and Silas, chief men among the brethren:
Acts 15:23 γραψαντες δια χειρος αυτων ταδε οι αποστολοι και οι πρεσβυτεροι και οι αδελφοι τοις κατα την αντιοχειαν και συριαν και κιλικιαν αδελφοις τοις εξ εθνων χαιρειν
Acts 15:23 And they wrote letters by them after this manner; The apostles and elders and brethren send greeting unto the brethren which are of the Gentiles in Antioch and Syria and Cilicia.
Acts 15:24 επειδη ηκουσαμεν οτι τινες εξ ημων εξελθοντες εταραξαν υμας λογοις ανασκευαζοντες τας ψυχας υμων λεγοντες περιτεμνεσθαι και τηρειν τον νομον οις ου διεστειλαμεθα
Acts 15:24 Forasmuch as we have heard, that certain which went out from us have troubled you with words, subverting your souls, saying, Ye must be circumcised, and keep the law: to whom we gave no such commandment:
Acts 15:25 εδοξεν ημιν γενομενοις ομοθυμαδον εκλεξαμενους ανδρας πεμψαι προς υμας συν τοις αγαπητοις ημων βαρναβα και παυλω
Acts 15:25 It seemed good unto us, being assembled with one accord, to send chosen men unto you with our beloved Barnabas and Paul,
Acts 15:26 ανθρωποις παραδεδωκοσιν τας ψυχας αυτων υπερ του ονοματος του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου
Acts 15:26 Men that have hazarded their lives for the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Acts 15:27 απεσταλκαμεν ουν ιουδαν και σιλαν και αυτους δια λογου απαγγελλοντας τα αυτα
Acts 15:27 We have sent therefore Judas and Silas, who shall also tell you the same things by mouth.
Acts 15:28 εδοξεν γαρ τω αγιω πνευματι και ημιν μηδεν πλεον επιτιθεσθαι υμιν βαρος πλην των επαναγκες τουτων
Acts 15:28 For it seemed good to the Holy Ghost, and to us, to lay upon you no greater burden than these necessary things;
Acts 15:29 απεχεσθαι ειδωλοθυτων και αιματος και πνικτου και πορνειας εξ ων διατηρουντες εαυτους ευ πραξετε ερρωσθε
Acts 15:29 That ye abstain from meats offered to idols, and from blood, and from things strangled, and from fornication: from which if ye keep yourselves, ye shall do well. Fare ye well.
Acts 15:30 οι μεν ουν απολυθεντες ηλθον εις αντιοχειαν και συναγαγοντες το πληθος επεδωκαν την επιστολην
Acts 15:30 So when they were dismissed, they came to Antioch: and when they had gathered the multitude together, they delivered the epistle:
Acts 15:31 αναγνοντες δε εχαρησαν επι τη παρακλησει
Acts 15:31 Which when they had read, they rejoiced for the consolation.
Acts 15:32 ιουδας τε και σιλας και αυτοι προφηται οντες δια λογου πολλου παρεκαλεσαν τους αδελφους και επεστηριξαν
Acts 15:32 And Judas and Silas, being prophets also themselves, exhorted the brethren with many words, and confirmed them.
Acts 15:33 ποιησαντες δε χρονον απελυθησαν μετ ειρηνης απο των αδελφων προς τους αποστολους
Acts 15:33 And after they had tarried there a space, they were let go in peace from the brethren unto the apostles.
Acts 15:34 εδοξεν δε τω σιλα επιμειναι αυτου
Acts 15:34 Notwithstanding it pleased Silas to abide there still.
Acts 15:35 παυλος δε και βαρναβας διετριβον εν αντιοχεια διδασκοντες και ευαγγελιζομενοι μετα και ετερων πολλων τον λογον του κυριου
Acts 15:35 Paul also and Barnabas continued in Antioch, teaching and preaching the word of the Lord, with many others also.
Acts 15:36 μετα δε τινας ημερας ειπεν παυλος προς βαρναβαν επιστρεψαντες δη επισκεψωμεθα τους αδελφους ημων κατα πασαν πολιν εν αις κατηγγειλαμεν τον λογον του κυριου πως εχουσιν
Acts 15:36 And some days after Paul said unto Barnabas, Let us go again and visit our brethren in every city where we have preached the word of the LORD, and see how they do.
Acts 15:37 βαρναβας δε εβουλευσατο συμπαραλαβειν τον ιωαννην τον καλουμενον μαρκον
Acts 15:37 And Barnabas determined to take with them John, whose surname was Mark.
Acts 15:38 παυλος δε ηξιου τον αποσταντα απ αυτων απο παμφυλιας και μη συνελθοντα αυτοις εις το εργον μη συμπαραλαβειν τουτον
Acts 15:38 But Paul thought not good to take him with them, who departed from them from Pamphylia, and went not with them to the work.
Acts 15:39 εγενετο ουν παροξυσμος ωστε αποχωρισθηναι αυτους απ αλληλων τον τε βαρναβαν παραλαβοντα τον μαρκον εκπλευσαι εις κυπρον
Acts 15:39 And the contention was so sharp between them, that they departed asunder one from the other: and so Barnabas took Mark, and sailed unto Cyprus;
Acts 15:40 παυλος δε επιλεξαμενος σιλαν εξηλθεν παραδοθεις τη χαριτι του θεου υπο των αδελφων
Acts 15:40 And Paul chose Silas, and departed, being recommended by the brethren unto the grace of God.
Acts 15:41 διηρχετο δε την συριαν και κιλικιαν επιστηριζων τας εκκλησιας
Acts 15:41 And he went through Syria and Cilicia, confirming the churches.
Acts 16:1 κατηντησεν δε εις δερβην και λυστραν και ιδου μαθητης τις ην εκει ονοματι τιμοθεος υιος γυναικος τινος ιουδαιας πιστης πατρος δε ελληνος
Acts 16:1 Then came he to Derbe and Lystra: and, behold, a certain disciple was there, named Timotheus, the son of a certain woman, which was a Jewess, and believed; but his father was a Greek:
Acts 16:2 ος εμαρτυρειτο υπο των εν λυστροις και ικονιω αδελφων
Acts 16:2 Which was well reported of by the brethren that were at Lystra and Iconium.
Acts 16:3 τουτον ηθελησεν ο παυλος συν αυτω εξελθειν και λαβων περιετεμεν αυτον δια τους ιουδαιους τους οντας εν τοις τοποις εκεινοις ηδεισαν γαρ απαντες τον πατερα αυτου οτι ελλην υπηρχεν
Acts 16:3 Him would Paul have to go forth with him; and took and circumcised him because of the Jews which were in those quarters: for they knew all that his father was a Greek.
Acts 16:4 ως δε διεπορευοντο τας πολεις παρεδιδουν αυτοις φυλασσειν τα δογματα τα κεκριμενα υπο των αποστολων και των πρεσβυτερων των εν ιερουσαλημ
Acts 16:4 And as they went through the cities, they delivered them the decrees for to keep, that were ordained of the apostles and elders which were at Jerusalem.
Acts 16:5 αι μεν ουν εκκλησιαι εστερεουντο τη πιστει και επερισσευον τω αριθμω καθ ημεραν
Acts 16:5 And so were the churches established in the faith, and increased in number daily.
Acts 16:6 διελθοντες δε την φρυγιαν και την γαλατικην χωραν κωλυθεντες υπο του αγιου πνευματος λαλησαι τον λογον εν τη ασια
Acts 16:6 Now when they had gone throughout Phrygia and the region of Galatia, and were forbidden of the Holy Ghost to preach the word in Asia,
Acts 16:7 ελθοντες κατα την μυσιαν επειραζον κατα την βιθυνιαν πορευεσθαι και ουκ ειασεν αυτους το πνευμα
Acts 16:7 After they were come to Mysia, they assayed to go into Bithynia: but the Spirit suffered them not.
Acts 16:8 παρελθοντες δε την μυσιαν κατεβησαν εις τρωαδα
Acts 16:8 And they passing by Mysia came down to Troas.
Acts 16:9 και οραμα δια της νυκτος ωφθη τω παυλω ανηρ τις ην μακεδων εστως παρακαλων αυτον και λεγων διαβας εις μακεδονιαν βοηθησον ημιν
Acts 16:9 And a vision appeared to Paul in the night; There stood a man of Macedonia, and prayed him, saying, Come over into Macedonia, and help us.
Acts 16:10 ως δε το οραμα ειδεν ευθεως εζητησαμεν εξελθειν εις την μακεδονιαν συμβιβαζοντες οτι προσκεκληται ημας ο κυριος ευαγγελισασθαι αυτους
Acts 16:10 And after he had seen the vision, immediately we endeavoured to go into Macedonia, assuredly gathering that the Lord had called us for to preach the gospel unto them.
Acts 16:11 αναχθεντες ουν απο της τρωαδος ευθυδρομησαμεν εις σαμοθρακην τη τε επιουση εις νεαπολιν
Acts 16:11 Therefore loosing from Troas, we came with a straight course to Samothracia, and the next day to Neapolis;
Acts 16:12 εκειθεν τε εις φιλιππους ητις εστιν πρωτη της μεριδος της μακεδονιας πολις κολωνια ημεν δε εν ταυτη τη πολει διατριβοντες ημερας τινας
Acts 16:12 And from thence to Philippi, which is the chief city of that part of Macedonia, and a colony: and we were in that city abiding certain days.
Acts 16:13 τη τε ημερα των σαββατων εξηλθομεν εξω της πολεως παρα ποταμον ου ενομιζετο προσευχη ειναι και καθισαντες ελαλουμεν ταις συνελθουσαις γυναιξιν
Acts 16:13 And on the sabbath we went out of the city by a river side, where prayer was wont to be made; and we sat down, and spake unto the women which resorted thither.
Acts 16:14 και τις γυνη ονοματι λυδια πορφυροπωλις πολεως θυατειρων σεβομενη τον θεον ηκουεν ης ο κυριος διηνοιξεν την καρδιαν προσεχειν τοις λαλουμενοις υπο του παυλου
Acts 16:14 And a certain woman named Lydia, a seller of purple, of the city of Thyatira, which worshipped God, heard us: whose heart the Lord opened, that she attended unto the things which were spoken of Paul.
Acts 16:15 ως δε εβαπτισθη και ο οικος αυτης παρεκαλεσεν λεγουσα ει κεκρικατε με πιστην τω κυριω ειναι εισελθοντες εις τον οικον μου μεινατε και παρεβιασατο ημας
Acts 16:15 And when she was baptized, and her household, she besought us, saying, If ye have judged me to be faithful to the Lord, come into my house, and abide there. And she constrained us.
Acts 16:16 εγενετο δε πορευομενων ημων εις προσευχην παιδισκην τινα εχουσαν πνευμα πυθωνος απαντησαι ημιν ητις εργασιαν πολλην παρειχεν τοις κυριοις αυτης μαντευομενη
Acts 16:16 And it came to pass, as we went to prayer, a certain damsel possessed with a spirit of divination met us, which brought her masters much gain by soothsaying:
Acts 16:17 αυτη κατακολουθησασα τω παυλω και ημιν εκραζεν λεγουσα ουτοι οι ανθρωποι δουλοι του θεου του υψιστου εισιν οιτινες καταγγελλουσιν ημιν οδον σωτηριας
Acts 16:17 The same followed Paul and us, and cried, saying, These men are the servants of the most high God, which shew unto us the way of salvation.
Acts 16:18 τουτο δε εποιει επι πολλας ημερας διαπονηθεις δε ο παυλος και επιστρεψας τω πνευματι ειπεν παραγγελλω σοι εν τω ονοματι ιησου χριστου εξελθειν απ αυτης και εξηλθεν αυτη τη ωρα
Acts 16:18 And this did she many days. But Paul, being grieved, turned and said to the spirit, I command thee in the name of Jesus Christ to come out of her. And he came out the same hour.
Acts 16:19 ιδοντες δε οι κυριοι αυτης οτι εξηλθεν η ελπις της εργασιας αυτων επιλαβομενοι τον παυλον και τον σιλαν ειλκυσαν εις την αγοραν επι τους αρχοντας
Acts 16:19 And when her masters saw that the hope of their gains was gone, they caught Paul and Silas, and drew them into the marketplace unto the rulers,
Acts 16:20 και προσαγαγοντες αυτους τοις στρατηγοις ειπον ουτοι οι ανθρωποι εκταρασσουσιν ημων την πολιν ιουδαιοι υπαρχοντες
Acts 16:20 And brought them to the magistrates, saying, These men, being Jews, do exceedingly trouble our city,
Acts 16:21 και καταγγελλουσιν εθη α ουκ εξεστιν ημιν παραδεχεσθαι ουδε ποιειν ρωμαιοις ουσιν
Acts 16:21 And teach customs, which are not lawful for us to receive, neither to observe, being Romans.
Acts 16:22 και συνεπεστη ο οχλος κατ αυτων και οι στρατηγοι περιρρηξαντες αυτων τα ιματια εκελευον ραβδιζειν
Acts 16:22 And the multitude rose up together against them: and the magistrates rent off their clothes, and commanded to beat them.
Acts 16:23 πολλας τε επιθεντες αυτοις πληγας εβαλον εις φυλακην παραγγειλαντες τω δεσμοφυλακι ασφαλως τηρειν αυτους
Acts 16:23 And when they had laid many stripes upon them, they cast them into prison, charging the jailor to keep them safely:
Acts 16:24 ος παραγγελιαν τοιαυτην ειληφως εβαλεν αυτους εις την εσωτεραν φυλακην και τους ποδας αυτων ησφαλισατο εις το ξυλον
Acts 16:24 Who, having received such a charge, thrust them into the inner prison, and made their feet fast in the stocks.
Acts 16:25 κατα δε το μεσονυκτιον παυλος και σιλας προσευχομενοι υμνουν τον θεον επηκροωντο δε αυτων οι δεσμιοι
Acts 16:25 And at midnight Paul and Silas prayed, and sang praises unto God: and the prisoners heard them.
Acts 16:26 αφνω δε σεισμος εγενετο μεγας ωστε σαλευθηναι τα θεμελια του δεσμωτηριου ανεωχθησαν τε παραχρημα αι θυραι πασαι και παντων τα δεσμα ανεθη
Acts 16:26 And suddenly there was a great earthquake, so that the foundations of the prison were shaken: and immediately all the doors were opened, and every one's bands were loosed.
Acts 16:27 εξυπνος δε γενομενος ο δεσμοφυλαξ και ιδων ανεωγμενας τας θυρας της φυλακης σπασαμενος μαχαιραν εμελλεν εαυτον αναιρειν νομιζων εκπεφευγεναι τους δεσμιους
Acts 16:27 And the keeper of the prison awaking out of his sleep, and seeing the prison doors open, he drew out his sword, and would have killed himself, supposing that the prisoners had been fled.
Acts 16:28 εφωνησεν δε φωνη μεγαλη ο παυλος λεγων μηδεν πραξης σεαυτω κακον απαντες γαρ εσμεν ενθαδε
Acts 16:28 But Paul cried with a loud voice, saying, Do thyself no harm: for we are all here.
Acts 16:29 αιτησας δε φωτα εισεπηδησεν και εντρομος γενομενος προσεπεσεν τω παυλω και τω σιλα
Acts 16:29 Then he called for a light, and sprang in, and came trembling, and fell down before Paul and Silas,
Acts 16:30 και προαγαγων αυτους εξω εφη κυριοι τι με δει ποιειν ινα σωθω
Acts 16:30 And brought them out, and said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved?
Acts 16:31 οι δε ειπον πιστευσον επι τον κυριον ιησουν χριστον και σωθηση συ και ο οικος σου
Acts 16:31 And they said, Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved, and thy house.
Acts 16:32 και ελαλησαν αυτω τον λογον του κυριου και πασιν τοις εν τη οικια αυτου
Acts 16:32 And they spake unto him the word of the Lord, and to all that were in his house.
Acts 16:33 και παραλαβων αυτους εν εκεινη τη ωρα της νυκτος ελουσεν απο των πληγων και εβαπτισθη αυτος και οι αυτου παντες παραχρημα
Acts 16:33 And he took them the same hour of the night, and washed their stripes; and was baptized, he and all his, straightway.
Acts 16:34 αναγαγων τε αυτους εις τον οικον αυτου παρεθηκεν τραπεζαν και ηγαλλιασατο πανοικι πεπιστευκως τω θεω
Acts 16:34 And when he had brought them into his house, he set meat before them, and rejoiced, believing in God with all his house.
Acts 16:35 ημερας δε γενομενης απεστειλαν οι στρατηγοι τους ραβδουχους λεγοντες απολυσον τους ανθρωπους εκεινους
Acts 16:35 And when it was day, the magistrates sent the serjeants, saying, Let those men go.
Acts 16:36 απηγγειλεν δε ο δεσμοφυλαξ τους λογους τουτους προς τον παυλον οτι απεσταλκασιν οι στρατηγοι ινα απολυθητε νυν ουν εξελθοντες πορευεσθε εν ειρηνη
Acts 16:36 And the keeper of the prison told this saying to Paul, The magistrates have sent to let you go: now therefore depart, and go in peace.
Acts 16:37 ο δε παυλος εφη προς αυτους δειραντες ημας δημοσια ακατακριτους ανθρωπους ρωμαιους υπαρχοντας εβαλον εις φυλακην και νυν λαθρα ημας εκβαλλουσιν ου γαρ αλλα ελθοντες αυτοι ημας εξαγαγετωσαν
Acts 16:37 But Paul said unto them, They have beaten us openly uncondemned, being Romans, and have cast us into prison; and now do they thrust us out privily? nay verily; but let them come themselves and fetch us out.
Acts 16:38 ανηγγειλαν δε τοις στρατηγοις οι ραβδουχοι τα ρηματα ταυτα και εφοβηθησαν ακουσαντες οτι ρωμαιοι εισιν
Acts 16:38 And the serjeants told these words unto the magistrates: and they feared, when they heard that they were Romans.
Acts 16:39 και ελθοντες παρεκαλεσαν αυτους και εξαγαγοντες ηρωτων εξελθειν της πολεως
Acts 16:39 And they came and besought them, and brought them out, and desired them to depart out of the city.
Acts 16:40 εξελθοντες δε εκ της φυλακης εισηλθον εις την λυδιαν και ιδοντες τους αδελφους παρεκαλεσαν αυτους και εξηλθον
Acts 16:40 And they went out of the prison, and entered into the house of Lydia: and when they had seen the brethren, they comforted them, and departed.
Acts 17:1 διοδευσαντες δε την αμφιπολιν και απολλωνιαν ηλθον εις θεσσαλονικην οπου ην η συναγωγη των ιουδαιων
Acts 17:1 Now when they had passed through Amphipolis and Apollonia, they came to Thessalonica, where was a synagogue of the Jews:
Acts 17:2 κατα δε το ειωθος τω παυλω εισηλθεν προς αυτους και επι σαββατα τρια διελεγετο αυτοις απο των γραφων
Acts 17:2 And Paul, as his manner was, went in unto them, and three sabbath days reasoned with them out of the scriptures,
Acts 17:3 διανοιγων και παρατιθεμενος οτι τον χριστον εδει παθειν και αναστηναι εκ νεκρων και οτι ουτος εστιν ο χριστος ιησους ον εγω καταγγελλω υμιν
Acts 17:3 Opening and alleging, that Christ must needs have suffered, and risen again from the dead; and that this Jesus, whom I preach unto you, is Christ.
Acts 17:4 και τινες εξ αυτων επεισθησαν και προσεκληρωθησαν τω παυλω και τω σιλα των τε σεβομενων ελληνων πολυ πληθος γυναικων τε των πρωτων ουκ ολιγαι
Acts 17:4 And some of them believed, and consorted with Paul and Silas; and of the devout Greeks a great multitude, and of the chief women not a few.
Acts 17:5 ζηλωσαντες δε οι απειθουντες ιουδαιοι και προσλαβομενοι των αγοραιων τινας ανδρας πονηρους και οχλοποιησαντες εθορυβουν την πολιν επισταντες τε τη οικια ιασονος εζητουν αυτους αγαγειν εις τον δημον
Acts 17:5 But the Jews which believed not, moved with envy, took unto them certain lewd fellows of the baser sort, and gathered a company, and set all the city on an uproar, and assaulted the house of Jason, and sought to bring them out to the people.
Acts 17:6 μη ευροντες δε αυτους εσυρον τον ιασονα και τινας αδελφους επι τους πολιταρχας βοωντες οτι οι την οικουμενην αναστατωσαντες ουτοι και ενθαδε παρεισιν
Acts 17:6 And when they found them not, they drew Jason and certain brethren unto the rulers of the city, crying, These that have turned the world upside down are come hither also;
Acts 17:7 ους υποδεδεκται ιασων και ουτοι παντες απεναντι των δογματων καισαρος πραττουσιν βασιλεα λεγοντες ετερον ειναι ιησουν
Acts 17:7 Whom Jason hath received: and these all do contrary to the decrees of Caesar, saying that there is another king, one Jesus.
Acts 17:8 εταραξαν δε τον οχλον και τους πολιταρχας ακουοντας ταυτα
Acts 17:8 And they troubled the people and the rulers of the city, when they heard these things.
Acts 17:9 και λαβοντες το ικανον παρα του ιασονος και των λοιπων απελυσαν αυτους
Acts 17:9 And when they had taken security of Jason, and of the other, they let them go.
Acts 17:10 οι δε αδελφοι ευθεως δια της νυκτος εξεπεμψαν τον τε παυλον και τον σιλαν εις βεροιαν οιτινες παραγενομενοι εις την συναγωγην των ιουδαιων απηεσαν
Acts 17:10 And the brethren immediately sent away Paul and Silas by night unto Berea: who coming thither went into the synagogue of the Jews.
Acts 17:11 ουτοι δε ησαν ευγενεστεροι των εν θεσσαλονικη οιτινες εδεξαντο τον λογον μετα πασης προθυμιας το καθ ημεραν ανακρινοντες τας γραφας ει εχοι ταυτα ουτως
Acts 17:11 These were more noble than those in Thessalonica, in that they received the word with all readiness of mind, and searched the scriptures daily, whether those things were so.
Acts 17:12 πολλοι μεν ουν εξ αυτων επιστευσαν και των ελληνιδων γυναικων των ευσχημονων και ανδρων ουκ ολιγοι
Acts 17:12 Therefore many of them believed; also of honourable women which were Greeks, and of men, not a few.
Acts 17:13 ως δε εγνωσαν οι απο της θεσσαλονικης ιουδαιοι οτι και εν τη βεροια κατηγγελη υπο του παυλου ο λογος του θεου ηλθον κακει σαλευοντες τους οχλους
Acts 17:13 But when the Jews of Thessalonica had knowledge that the word of God was preached of Paul at Berea, they came thither also, and stirred up the people.
Acts 17:14 ευθεως δε τοτε τον παυλον εξαπεστειλαν οι αδελφοι πορευεσθαι ως επι την θαλασσαν υπεμενον δε ο τε σιλας και ο τιμοθεος εκει
Acts 17:14 And then immediately the brethren sent away Paul to go as it were to the sea: but Silas and Timotheus abode there still.
Acts 17:15 οι δε καθιστωντες τον παυλον ηγαγον αυτον εως αθηνων και λαβοντες εντολην προς τον σιλαν και τιμοθεον ινα ως ταχιστα ελθωσιν προς αυτον εξηεσαν
Acts 17:15 And they that conducted Paul brought him unto Athens: and receiving a commandment unto Silas and Timotheus for to come to him with all speed, they departed.
Acts 17:16 εν δε ταις αθηναις εκδεχομενου αυτους του παυλου παρωξυνετο το πνευμα αυτου εν αυτω θεωρουντι κατειδωλον ουσαν την πολιν
Acts 17:16 Now while Paul waited for them at Athens, his spirit was stirred in him, when he saw the city wholly given to idolatry.
Acts 17:17 διελεγετο μεν ουν εν τη συναγωγη τοις ιουδαιοις και τοις σεβομενοις και εν τη αγορα κατα πασαν ημεραν προς τους παρατυγχανοντας
Acts 17:17 Therefore disputed he in the synagogue with the Jews, and with the devout persons, and in the market daily with them that met with him.
Acts 17:18 τινες δε των επικουρειων και των στωικων φιλοσοφων συνεβαλλον αυτω και τινες ελεγον τι αν θελοι ο σπερμολογος ουτος λεγειν οι δε ξενων δαιμονιων δοκει καταγγελευς ειναι οτι τον ιησουν και την αναστασιν αυτοις ευηγγελιζετο
Acts 17:18 Then certain philosophers of the Epicureans, and of the Stoicks, encountered him. And some said, What will this babbler say? other some, He seemeth to be a setter forth of strange gods: because he preached unto them Jesus, and the resurrection.
Acts 17:19 επιλαβομενοι τε αυτου επι τον αρειον παγον ηγαγον λεγοντες δυναμεθα γνωναι τις η καινη αυτη η υπο σου λαλουμενη διδαχη
Acts 17:19 And they took him, and brought him unto Areopagus, saying, May we know what this new doctrine, whereof thou speakest, is?
Acts 17:20 ξενιζοντα γαρ τινα εισφερεις εις τας ακοας ημων βουλομεθα ουν γνωναι τι αν θελοι ταυτα ειναι
Acts 17:20 For thou bringest certain strange things to our ears: we would know therefore what these things mean.
Acts 17:21 αθηναιοι δε παντες και οι επιδημουντες ξενοι εις ουδεν ετερον ευκαιρουν η λεγειν τι και ακουειν καινοτερον
Acts 17:21 (For all the Athenians and strangers which were there spent their time in nothing else, but either to tell, or to hear some new thing.)
Acts 17:22 σταθεις δε ο παυλος εν μεσω του αρειου παγου εφη ανδρες αθηναιοι κατα παντα ως δεισιδαιμονεστερους υμας θεωρω
Acts 17:22 Then Paul stood in the midst of Mars' hill, and said, Ye men of Athens, I perceive that in all things ye are too superstitious.
Acts 17:23 διερχομενος γαρ και αναθεωρων τα σεβασματα υμων ευρον και βωμον εν ω επεγεγραπτο αγνωστω θεω ον ουν αγνοουντες ευσεβειτε τουτον εγω καταγγελλω υμιν
Acts 17:23 For as I passed by, and beheld your devotions, I found an altar with this inscription, TO THE UNKNOWN GOD. Whom therefore ye ignorantly worship, him declare I unto you.
Acts 17:24 ο θεος ο ποιησας τον κοσμον και παντα τα εν αυτω ουτος ουρανου και γης κυριος υπαρχων ουκ εν χειροποιητοις ναοις κατοικει
Acts 17:24 God that made the world and all things therein, seeing that he is Lord of heaven and earth, dwelleth not in temples made with hands;
Acts 17:25 ουδε υπο χειρων ανθρωπων θεραπευεται προσδεομενος τινος αυτος διδους πασιν ζωην και πνοην κατα παντα
Acts 17:25 Neither is worshipped with men's hands, as though he needed any thing, seeing he giveth to all life, and breath, and all things;
Acts 17:26 εποιησεν τε εξ ενος αιματος παν εθνος ανθρωπων κατοικειν επι παν το προσωπον της γης ορισας προτεταγμενους καιρους και τας οροθεσιας της κατοικιας αυτων
Acts 17:26 And hath made of one blood all nations of men for to dwell on all the face of the earth, and hath determined the times before appointed, and the bounds of their habitation;
Acts 17:27 ζητειν τον κυριον ει αρα γε ψηλαφησειαν αυτον και ευροιεν καιτοιγε ου μακραν απο ενος εκαστου ημων υπαρχοντα
Acts 17:27 That they should seek the Lord, if haply they might feel after him, and find him, though he be not far from every one of us:
Acts 17:28 εν αυτω γαρ ζωμεν και κινουμεθα και εσμεν ως και τινες των καθ υμας ποιητων ειρηκασιν του γαρ και γενος εσμεν
Acts 17:28 For in him we live, and move, and have our being; as certain also of your own poets have said, For we are also his offspring.
Acts 17:29 γενος ουν υπαρχοντες του θεου ουκ οφειλομεν νομιζειν χρυσω η αργυρω η λιθω χαραγματι τεχνης και ενθυμησεως ανθρωπου το θειον ειναι ομοιον
Acts 17:29 Forasmuch then as we are the offspring of God, we ought not to think that the Godhead is like unto gold, or silver, or stone, graven by art and man's device.
Acts 17:30 τους μεν ουν χρονους της αγνοιας υπεριδων ο θεος τα νυν παραγγελλει τοις ανθρωποις πασιν πανταχου μετανοειν
Acts 17:30 And the times of this ignorance God winked at; but now commandeth all men every where to repent:
Acts 17:31 διοτι εστησεν ημεραν εν η μελλει κρινειν την οικουμενην εν δικαιοσυνη εν ανδρι ω ωρισεν πιστιν παρασχων πασιν αναστησας αυτον εκ νεκρων
Acts 17:31 Because he hath appointed a day, in the which he will judge the world in righteousness by that man whom he hath ordained; whereof he hath given assurance unto all men, in that he hath raised him from the dead.
Acts 17:32 ακουσαντες δε αναστασιν νεκρων οι μεν εχλευαζον οι δε ειπον ακουσομεθα σου παλιν περι τουτου
Acts 17:32 And when they heard of the resurrection of the dead, some mocked: and others said, We will hear thee again of this matter.
Acts 17:33 και ουτως ο παυλος εξηλθεν εκ μεσου αυτων
Acts 17:33 So Paul departed from among them.
Acts 17:34 τινες δε ανδρες κολληθεντες αυτω επιστευσαν εν οις και διονυσιος ο αρεοπαγιτης και γυνη ονοματι δαμαρις και ετεροι συν αυτοις
Acts 17:34 Howbeit certain men clave unto him, and believed: among the which was Dionysius the Areopagite, and a woman named Damaris, and others with them.
Acts 18:1 μετα δε ταυτα χωρισθεις ο παυλος εκ των αθηνων ηλθεν εις κορινθον
Acts 18:1 After these things Paul departed from Athens, and came to Corinth;
Acts 18:2 και ευρων τινα ιουδαιον ονοματι ακυλαν ποντικον τω γενει προσφατως εληλυθοτα απο της ιταλιας και πρισκιλλαν γυναικα αυτου δια το διατεταχεναι κλαυδιον χωριζεσθαι παντας τους ιουδαιους εκ της ρωμης προσηλθεν αυτοις
Acts 18:2 And found a certain Jew named Aquila, born in Pontus, lately come from Italy, with his wife Priscilla; (because that Claudius had commanded all Jews to depart from Rome:) and came unto them.
Acts 18:3 και δια το ομοτεχνον ειναι εμενεν παρ αυτοις και ειργαζετο ησαν γαρ σκηνοποιοι την τεχνην
Acts 18:3 And because he was of the same craft, he abode with them, and wrought: for by their occupation they were tentmakers.
Acts 18:4 διελεγετο δε εν τη συναγωγη κατα παν σαββατον επειθεν τε ιουδαιους και ελληνας
Acts 18:4 And he reasoned in the synagogue every sabbath, and persuaded the Jews and the Greeks.
Acts 18:5 ως δε κατηλθον απο της μακεδονιας ο τε σιλας και ο τιμοθεος συνειχετο τω πνευματι ο παυλος διαμαρτυρομενος τοις ιουδαιοις τον χριστον ιησουν
Acts 18:5 And when Silas and Timotheus were come from Macedonia, Paul was pressed in the spirit, and testified to the Jews that Jesus was Christ.
Acts 18:6 αντιτασσομενων δε αυτων και βλασφημουντων εκτιναξαμενος τα ιματια ειπεν προς αυτους το αιμα υμων επι την κεφαλην υμων καθαρος εγω απο του νυν εις τα εθνη πορευσομαι
Acts 18:6 And when they opposed themselves, and blasphemed, he shook his raiment, and said unto them, Your blood be upon your own heads; I am clean; from henceforth I will go unto the Gentiles.
Acts 18:7 και μεταβας εκειθεν ηλθεν εις οικιαν τινος ονοματι ιουστου σεβομενου τον θεον ου η οικια ην συνομορουσα τη συναγωγη
Acts 18:7 And he departed thence, and entered into a certain man's house, named Justus, one that worshipped God, whose house joined hard to the synagogue.
Acts 18:8 κρισπος δε ο αρχισυναγωγος επιστευσεν τω κυριω συν ολω τω οικω αυτου και πολλοι των κορινθιων ακουοντες επιστευον και εβαπτιζοντο
Acts 18:8 And Crispus, the chief ruler of the synagogue, believed on the Lord with all his house; and many of the Corinthians hearing believed, and were baptized.
Acts 18:9 ειπεν δε ο κυριος δι οραματος εν νυκτι τω παυλω μη φοβου αλλα λαλει και μη σιωπησης
Acts 18:9 Then spake the Lord to Paul in the night by a vision, Be not afraid, but speak, and hold not thy peace:
Acts 18:10 διοτι εγω ειμι μετα σου και ουδεις επιθησεται σοι του κακωσαι σε διοτι λαος εστιν μοι πολυς εν τη πολει ταυτη
Acts 18:10 For I am with thee, and no man shall set on thee to hurt thee: for I have much people in this city.
Acts 18:11 εκαθισεν τε ενιαυτον και μηνας εξ διδασκων εν αυτοις τον λογον του θεου
Acts 18:11 And he continued there a year and six months, teaching the word of God among them.
Acts 18:12 γαλλιωνος δε ανθυπατευοντος της αχαιας κατεπεστησαν ομοθυμαδον οι ιουδαιοι τω παυλω και ηγαγον αυτον επι το βημα
Acts 18:12 And when Gallio was the deputy of Achaia, the Jews made insurrection with one accord against Paul, and brought him to the judgment seat,
Acts 18:13 λεγοντες οτι παρα τον νομον ουτος αναπειθει τους ανθρωπους σεβεσθαι τον θεον
Acts 18:13 Saying, This fellow persuadeth men to worship God contrary to the law.
Acts 18:14 μελλοντος δε του παυλου ανοιγειν το στομα ειπεν ο γαλλιων προς τους ιουδαιους ει μεν ουν ην αδικημα τι η ραδιουργημα πονηρον ω ιουδαιοι κατα λογον αν ηνεσχομην υμων
Acts 18:14 And when Paul was now about to open his mouth, Gallio said unto the Jews, If it were a matter of wrong or wicked lewdness, O ye Jews, reason would that I should bear with you:
Acts 18:15 ει δε ζητημα εστιν περι λογου και ονοματων και νομου του καθ υμας οψεσθε αυτοι κριτης γαρ εγω τουτων ου βουλομαι ειναι
Acts 18:15 But if it be a question of words and names, and of your law, look ye to it; for I will be no judge of such matters.
Acts 18:16 και απηλασεν αυτους απο του βηματος
Acts 18:16 And he drave them from the judgment seat.
Acts 18:17 επιλαβομενοι δε παντες οι ελληνες σωσθενην τον αρχισυναγωγον ετυπτον εμπροσθεν του βηματος και ουδεν τουτων τω γαλλιωνι εμελεν
Acts 18:17 Then all the Greeks took Sosthenes, the chief ruler of the synagogue, and beat him before the judgment seat. And Gallio cared for none of those things.
Acts 18:18 ο δε παυλος ετι προσμεινας ημερας ικανας τοις αδελφοις αποταξαμενος εξεπλει εις την συριαν και συν αυτω πρισκιλλα και ακυλας κειραμενος την κεφαλην εν κεγχρεαις ειχεν γαρ ευχην
Acts 18:18 And Paul after this tarried there yet a good while, and then took his leave of the brethren, and sailed thence into Syria, and with him Priscilla and Aquila; having shorn his head in Cenchrea: for he had a vow.
Acts 18:19 κατηντησεν δε εις εφεσον κακεινους κατελιπεν αυτου αυτος δε εισελθων εις την συναγωγην διελεχθη τοις ιουδαιοις
Acts 18:19 And he came to Ephesus, and left them there: but he himself entered into the synagogue, and reasoned with the Jews.
Acts 18:20 ερωτωντων δε αυτων επι πλειονα χρονον μειναι παρ αυτοις ουκ επενευσεν
Acts 18:20 When they desired him to tarry longer time with them, he consented not;
Acts 18:21 αλλ απεταξατο αυτοις ειπων δει με παντως την εορτην την ερχομενην ποιησαι εις ιεροσολυμα παλιν δε ανακαμψω προς υμας του θεου θελοντος και ανηχθη απο της εφεσου
Acts 18:21 But bade them farewell, saying, I must by all means keep this feast that cometh in Jerusalem: but I will return again unto you, if God will. And he sailed from Ephesus.
Acts 18:22 και κατελθων εις καισαρειαν αναβας και ασπασαμενος την εκκλησιαν κατεβη εις αντιοχειαν
Acts 18:22 And when he had landed at Caesarea, and gone up, and saluted the church, he went down to Antioch.
Acts 18:23 και ποιησας χρονον τινα εξηλθεν διερχομενος καθεξης την γαλατικην χωραν και φρυγιαν επιστηριζων παντας τους μαθητας
Acts 18:23 And after he had spent some time there, he departed, and went over all the country of Galatia and Phrygia in order, strengthening all the disciples.
Acts 18:24 ιουδαιος δε τις απολλως ονοματι αλεξανδρευς τω γενει ανηρ λογιος κατηντησεν εις εφεσον δυνατος ων εν ταις γραφαις
Acts 18:24 And a certain Jew named Apollos, born at Alexandria, an eloquent man, and mighty in the scriptures, came to Ephesus.
Acts 18:25 ουτος ην κατηχημενος την οδον του κυριου και ζεων τω πνευματι ελαλει και εδιδασκεν ακριβως τα περι του κυριου επισταμενος μονον το βαπτισμα ιωαννου
Acts 18:25 This man was instructed in the way of the Lord; and being fervent in the spirit, he spake and taught diligently the things of the Lord, knowing only the baptism of John.
Acts 18:26 ουτος τε ηρξατο παρρησιαζεσθαι εν τη συναγωγη ακουσαντες δε αυτου ακυλας και πρισκιλλα προσελαβοντο αυτον και ακριβεστερον αυτω εξεθεντο την του θεου οδον
Acts 18:26 And he began to speak boldly in the synagogue: whom when Aquila and Priscilla had heard, they took him unto them, and expounded unto him the way of God more perfectly.
Acts 18:27 βουλομενου δε αυτου διελθειν εις την αχαιαν προτρεψαμενοι οι αδελφοι εγραψαν τοις μαθηταις αποδεξασθαι αυτον ος παραγενομενος συνεβαλετο πολυ τοις πεπιστευκοσιν δια της χαριτος
Acts 18:27 And when he was disposed to pass into Achaia, the brethren wrote, exhorting the disciples to receive him: who, when he was come, helped them much which had believed through grace:
Acts 18:28 ευτονως γαρ τοις ιουδαιοις διακατηλεγχετο δημοσια επιδεικνυς δια των γραφων ειναι τον χριστον ιησουν
Acts 18:28 For he mightily convinced the Jews, and that publickly, shewing by the scriptures that Jesus was Christ.
Acts 19:1 εγενετο δε εν τω τον απολλω ειναι εν κορινθω παυλον διελθοντα τα ανωτερικα μερη ελθειν εις εφεσον και ευρων τινας μαθητας
Acts 19:1 And it came to pass, that, while Apollos was at Corinth, Paul having passed through the upper coasts came to Ephesus: and finding certain disciples,
Acts 19:2 ειπεν προς αυτους ει πνευμα αγιον ελαβετε πιστευσαντες οι δε ειπον προς αυτον αλλ ουδε ει πνευμα αγιον εστιν ηκουσαμεν
Acts 19:2 He said unto them, Have ye received the Holy Ghost since ye believed? And they said unto him, We have not so much as heard whether there be any Holy Ghost.
Acts 19:3 ειπεν τε προς αυτους εις τι ουν εβαπτισθητε οι δε ειπον εις το ιωαννου βαπτισμα
Acts 19:3 And he said unto them, Unto what then were ye baptized? And they said, Unto John's baptism.
Acts 19:4 ειπεν δε παυλος ιωαννης μεν εβαπτισεν βαπτισμα μετανοιας τω λαω λεγων εις τον ερχομενον μετ αυτον ινα πιστευσωσιν τουτεστιν εις τον χριστον ιησουν
Acts 19:4 Then said Paul, John verily baptized with the baptism of repentance, saying unto the people, that they should believe on him which should come after him, that is, on Christ Jesus.
Acts 19:5 ακουσαντες δε εβαπτισθησαν εις το ονομα του κυριου ιησου
Acts 19:5 When they heard this, they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus.
Acts 19:6 και επιθεντος αυτοις του παυλου τας χειρας ηλθεν το πνευμα το αγιον επ αυτους ελαλουν τε γλωσσαις και προεφητευον
Acts 19:6 And when Paul had laid his hands upon them, the Holy Ghost came on them; and they spake with tongues, and prophesied.
Acts 19:7 ησαν δε οι παντες ανδρες ωσει δεκαδυο
Acts 19:7 And all the men were about twelve.
Acts 19:8 εισελθων δε εις την συναγωγην επαρρησιαζετο επι μηνας τρεις διαλεγομενος και πειθων τα περι της βασιλειας του θεου
Acts 19:8 And he went into the synagogue, and spake boldly for the space of three months, disputing and persuading the things concerning the kingdom of God.
Acts 19:9 ως δε τινες εσκληρυνοντο και ηπειθουν κακολογουντες την οδον ενωπιον του πληθους αποστας απ αυτων αφωρισεν τους μαθητας καθ ημεραν διαλεγομενος εν τη σχολη τυραννου τινος
Acts 19:9 But when divers were hardened, and believed not, but spake evil of that way before the multitude, he departed from them, and separated the disciples, disputing daily in the school of one Tyrannus.
Acts 19:10 τουτο δε εγενετο επι ετη δυο ωστε παντας τους κατοικουντας την ασιαν ακουσαι τον λογον του κυριου ιησου ιουδαιους τε και ελληνας
Acts 19:10 And this continued by the space of two years; so that all they which dwelt in Asia heard the word of the Lord Jesus, both Jews and Greeks.
Acts 19:11 δυναμεις τε ου τας τυχουσας εποιει ο θεος δια των χειρων παυλου
Acts 19:11 And God wrought special miracles by the hands of Paul:
Acts 19:12 ωστε και επι τους ασθενουντας επιφερεσθαι απο του χρωτος αυτου σουδαρια η σιμικινθια και απαλλασσεσθαι απ αυτων τας νοσους τα τε πνευματα τα πονηρα εξερχεσθαι απ αυτων
Acts 19:12 So that from his body were brought unto the sick handkerchiefs or aprons, and the diseases departed from them, and the evil spirits went out of them.
Acts 19:13 επεχειρησαν δε τινες απο των περιερχομενων ιουδαιων εξορκιστων ονομαζειν επι τους εχοντας τα πνευματα τα πονηρα το ονομα του κυριου ιησου λεγοντες ορκιζομεν υμας τον ιησουν ον ο παυλος κηρυσσει
Acts 19:13 Then certain of the vagabond Jews, exorcists, took upon them to call over them which had evil spirits the name of the LORD Jesus, saying, We adjure you by Jesus whom Paul preacheth.
Acts 19:14 ησαν δε τινες υιοι σκευα ιουδαιου αρχιερεως επτα οι τουτο ποιουντες
Acts 19:14 And there were seven sons of one Sceva, a Jew, and chief of the priests, which did so.
Acts 19:15 αποκριθεν δε το πνευμα το πονηρον ειπεν τον ιησουν γινωσκω και τον παυλον επισταμαι υμεις δε τινες εστε
Acts 19:15 And the evil spirit answered and said, Jesus I know, and Paul I know; but who are ye?
Acts 19:16 και εφαλλομενος επ αυτους ο ανθρωπος εν ω ην το πνευμα το πονηρον και κατακυριευσας αυτων ισχυσεν κατ αυτων ωστε γυμνους και τετραυματισμενους εκφυγειν εκ του οικου εκεινου
Acts 19:16 And the man in whom the evil spirit was leaped on them, and overcame them, and prevailed against them, so that they fled out of that house naked and wounded.
Acts 19:17 τουτο δε εγενετο γνωστον πασιν ιουδαιοις τε και ελλησιν τοις κατοικουσιν την εφεσον και επεπεσεν φοβος επι παντας αυτους και εμεγαλυνετο το ονομα του κυριου ιησου
Acts 19:17 And this was known to all the Jews and Greeks also dwelling at Ephesus; and fear fell on them all, and the name of the Lord Jesus was magnified.
Acts 19:18 πολλοι τε των πεπιστευκοτων ηρχοντο εξομολογουμενοι και αναγγελλοντες τας πραξεις αυτων
Acts 19:18 And many that believed came, and confessed, and shewed their deeds.
Acts 19:19 ικανοι δε των τα περιεργα πραξαντων συνενεγκαντες τας βιβλους κατεκαιον ενωπιον παντων και συνεψηφισαν τας τιμας αυτων και ευρον αργυριου μυριαδας πεντε
Acts 19:19 Many of them also which used curious arts brought their books together, and burned them before all men: and they counted the price of them, and found it fifty thousand pieces of silver.
Acts 19:20 ουτως κατα κρατος ο λογος του κυριου ηυξανεν και ισχυεν
Acts 19:20 So mightily grew the word of God and prevailed.
Acts 19:21 ως δε επληρωθη ταυτα εθετο ο παυλος εν τω πνευματι διελθων την μακεδονιαν και αχαιαν πορευεσθαι εις ιερουσαλημ ειπων οτι μετα το γενεσθαι με εκει δει με και ρωμην ιδειν
Acts 19:21 After these things were ended, Paul purposed in the spirit, when he had passed through Macedonia and Achaia, to go to Jerusalem, saying, After I have been there, I must also see Rome.
Acts 19:22 αποστειλας δε εις την μακεδονιαν δυο των διακονουντων αυτω τιμοθεον και εραστον αυτος επεσχεν χρονον εις την ασιαν
Acts 19:22 So he sent into Macedonia two of them that ministered unto him, Timotheus and Erastus; but he himself stayed in Asia for a season.
Acts 19:23 εγενετο δε κατα τον καιρον εκεινον ταραχος ουκ ολιγος περι της οδου
Acts 19:23 And the same time there arose no small stir about that way.
Acts 19:24 δημητριος γαρ τις ονοματι αργυροκοπος ποιων ναους αργυρους αρτεμιδος παρειχετο τοις τεχνιταις εργασιαν ουκ ολιγην
Acts 19:24 For a certain man named Demetrius, a silversmith, which made silver shrines for Diana, brought no small gain unto the craftsmen;
Acts 19:25 ους συναθροισας και τους περι τα τοιαυτα εργατας ειπεν ανδρες επιστασθε οτι εκ ταυτης της εργασιας η ευπορια ημων εστιν
Acts 19:25 Whom he called together with the workmen of like occupation, and said, Sirs, ye know that by this craft we have our wealth.
Acts 19:26 και θεωρειτε και ακουετε οτι ου μονον εφεσου αλλα σχεδον πασης της ασιας ο παυλος ουτος πεισας μετεστησεν ικανον οχλον λεγων οτι ουκ εισιν θεοι οι δια χειρων γινομενοι
Acts 19:26 Moreover ye see and hear, that not alone at Ephesus, but almost throughout all Asia, this Paul hath persuaded and turned away much people, saying that they be no gods, which are made with hands:
Acts 19:27 ου μονον δε τουτο κινδυνευει ημιν το μερος εις απελεγμον ελθειν αλλα και το της μεγαλης θεας αρτεμιδος ιερον εις ουδεν λογισθηναι μελλειν δε και καθαιρεισθαι την μεγαλειοτητα αυτης ην ολη η ασια και η οικουμενη σεβεται
Acts 19:27 So that not only this our craft is in danger to be set at nought; but also that the temple of the great goddess Diana should be despised, and her magnificence should be destroyed, whom all Asia and the world worshippeth.
Acts 19:28 ακουσαντες δε και γενομενοι πληρεις θυμου εκραζον λεγοντες μεγαλη η αρτεμις εφεσιων
Acts 19:28 And when they heard these sayings, they were full of wrath, and cried out, saying, Great is Diana of the Ephesians.
Acts 19:29 και επλησθη η πολις ολη συγχυσεως ωρμησαν τε ομοθυμαδον εις το θεατρον συναρπασαντες γαιον και αρισταρχον μακεδονας συνεκδημους του παυλου
Acts 19:29 And the whole city was filled with confusion: and having caught Gaius and Aristarchus, men of Macedonia, Paul's companions in travel, they rushed with one accord into the theatre.
Acts 19:30 του δε παυλου βουλομενου εισελθειν εις τον δημον ουκ ειων αυτον οι μαθηται
Acts 19:30 And when Paul would have entered in unto the people, the disciples suffered him not.
Acts 19:31 τινες δε και των ασιαρχων οντες αυτω φιλοι πεμψαντες προς αυτον παρεκαλουν μη δουναι εαυτον εις το θεατρον
Acts 19:31 And certain of the chief of Asia, which were his friends, sent unto him, desiring him that he would not adventure himself into the theatre.
Acts 19:32 αλλοι μεν ουν αλλο τι εκραζον ην γαρ η εκκλησια συγκεχυμενη και οι πλειους ουκ ηδεισαν τινος ενεκεν συνεληλυθεισαν
Acts 19:32 Some therefore cried one thing, and some another: for the assembly was confused: and the more part knew not wherefore they were come together.
Acts 19:33 εκ δε του οχλου προεβιβασαν αλεξανδρον προβαλοντων αυτον των ιουδαιων ο δε αλεξανδρος κατασεισας την χειρα ηθελεν απολογεισθαι τω δημω
Acts 19:33 And they drew Alexander out of the multitude, the Jews putting him forward. And Alexander beckoned with the hand, and would have made his defence unto the people.
Acts 19:34 επιγνοντων δε οτι ιουδαιος εστιν φωνη εγενετο μια εκ παντων ως επι ωρας δυο κραζοντων μεγαλη η αρτεμις εφεσιων
Acts 19:34 But when they knew that he was a Jew, all with one voice about the space of two hours cried out, Great is Diana of the Ephesians.
Acts 19:35 καταστειλας δε ο γραμματευς τον οχλον φησιν ανδρες εφεσιοι τις γαρ εστιν ανθρωπος ος ου γινωσκει την εφεσιων πολιν νεωκορον ουσαν της μεγαλης θεας αρτεμιδος και του διοπετους
Acts 19:35 And when the townclerk had appeased the people, he said, Ye men of Ephesus, what man is there that knoweth not how that the city of the Ephesians is a worshipper of the great goddess Diana, and of the image which fell down from Jupiter?
Acts 19:36 αναντιρρητων ουν οντων τουτων δεον εστιν υμας κατεσταλμενους υπαρχειν και μηδεν προπετες πραττειν
Acts 19:36 Seeing then that these things cannot be spoken against, ye ought to be quiet, and to do nothing rashly.
Acts 19:37 ηγαγετε γαρ τους ανδρας τουτους ουτε ιεροσυλους ουτε βλασφημουντας την θεαν υμων
Acts 19:37 For ye have brought hither these men, which are neither robbers of churches, nor yet blasphemers of your goddess.
Acts 19:38 ει μεν ουν δημητριος και οι συν αυτω τεχνιται προς τινα λογον εχουσιν αγοραιοι αγονται και ανθυπατοι εισιν εγκαλειτωσαν αλληλοις
Acts 19:38 Wherefore if Demetrius, and the craftsmen which are with him, have a matter against any man, the law is open, and there are deputies: let them implead one another.
Acts 19:39 ει δε τι περι ετερων επιζητειτε εν τη εννομω εκκλησια επιλυθησεται
Acts 19:39 But if ye enquire any thing concerning other matters, it shall be determined in a lawful assembly.
Acts 19:40 και γαρ κινδυνευομεν εγκαλεισθαι στασεως περι της σημερον μηδενος αιτιου υπαρχοντος περι ου δυνησομεθα αποδουναι λογον της συστροφης ταυτης
Acts 19:40 For we are in danger to be called in question for this day's uproar, there being no cause whereby we may give an account of this concourse.
Acts 19:41 και ταυτα ειπων απελυσεν την εκκλησιαν
Acts 19:41 And when he had thus spoken, he dismissed the assembly.
Acts 20:1 μετα δε το παυσασθαι τον θορυβον προσκαλεσαμενος ο παυλος τους μαθητας και ασπασαμενος εξηλθεν πορευθηναι εις την μακεδονιαν
Acts 20:1 And after the uproar was ceased, Paul called unto him the disciples, and embraced them, and departed for to go into Macedonia.
Acts 20:2 διελθων δε τα μερη εκεινα και παρακαλεσας αυτους λογω πολλω ηλθεν εις την ελλαδα
Acts 20:2 And when he had gone over those parts, and had given them much exhortation, he came into Greece,
Acts 20:3 ποιησας τε μηνας τρεις γενομενης αυτω επιβουλης υπο των ιουδαιων μελλοντι αναγεσθαι εις την συριαν εγενετο γνωμη του υποστρεφειν δια μακεδονιας
Acts 20:3 And there abode three months. And when the Jews laid wait for him, as he was about to sail into Syria, he purposed to return through Macedonia.
Acts 20:4 συνειπετο δε αυτω αχρι της ασιας σωπατρος βεροιαιος θεσσαλονικεων δε αρισταρχος και σεκουνδος και γαιος δερβαιος και τιμοθεος ασιανοι δε τυχικος και τροφιμος
Acts 20:4 And there accompanied him into Asia Sopater of Berea; and of the Thessalonians, Aristarchus and Secundus; and Gaius of Derbe, and Timotheus; and of Asia, Tychicus and Trophimus.
Acts 20:5 ουτοι προελθοντες εμενον ημας εν τρωαδι
Acts 20:5 These going before tarried for us at Troas.
Acts 20:6 ημεις δε εξεπλευσαμεν μετα τας ημερας των αζυμων απο φιλιππων και ηλθομεν προς αυτους εις την τρωαδα αχρις ημερων πεντε ου διετριψαμεν ημερας επτα
Acts 20:6 And we sailed away from Philippi after the days of unleavened bread, and came unto them to Troas in five days; where we abode seven days.
Acts 20:7 εν δε τη μια των σαββατων συνηγμενων των μαθητων του κλασαι αρτον ο παυλος διελεγετο αυτοις μελλων εξιεναι τη επαυριον παρετεινεν τε τον λογον μεχρι μεσονυκτιου
Acts 20:7 And upon the first day of the week, when the disciples came together to break bread, Paul preached unto them, ready to depart on the morrow; and continued his speech until midnight.
Acts 20:8 ησαν δε λαμπαδες ικαναι εν τω υπερωω ου ησαν συνηγμενοι
Acts 20:8 And there were many lights in the upper chamber, where they were gathered together.
Acts 20:9 καθημενος δε τις νεανιας ονοματι ευτυχος επι της θυριδος καταφερομενος υπνω βαθει διαλεγομενου του παυλου επι πλειον κατενεχθεις απο του υπνου επεσεν απο του τριστεγου κατω και ηρθη νεκρος
Acts 20:9 And there sat in a window a certain young man named Eutychus, being fallen into a deep sleep: and as Paul was long preaching, he sunk down with sleep, and fell down from the third loft, and was taken up dead.
Acts 20:10 καταβας δε ο παυλος επεπεσεν αυτω και συμπεριλαβων ειπεν μη θορυβεισθε η γαρ ψυχη αυτου εν αυτω εστιν
Acts 20:10 And Paul went down, and fell on him, and embracing him said, Trouble not yourselves; for his life is in him.
Acts 20:11 αναβας δε και κλασας αρτον και γευσαμενος εφ ικανον τε ομιλησας αχρις αυγης ουτως εξηλθεν
Acts 20:11 When he therefore was come up again, and had broken bread, and eaten, and talked a long while, even till break of day, so he departed.
Acts 20:12 ηγαγον δε τον παιδα ζωντα και παρεκληθησαν ου μετριως
Acts 20:12 And they brought the young man alive, and were not a little comforted.
Acts 20:13 ημεις δε προελθοντες επι το πλοιον ανηχθημεν εις την ασσον εκειθεν μελλοντες αναλαμβανειν τον παυλον ουτως γαρ ην διατεταγμενος μελλων αυτος πεζευειν
Acts 20:13 And we went before to ship, and sailed unto Assos, there intending to take in Paul: for so had he appointed, minding himself to go afoot.
Acts 20:14 ως δε συνεβαλεν ημιν εις την ασσον αναλαβοντες αυτον ηλθομεν εις μιτυληνην
Acts 20:14 And when he met with us at Assos, we took him in, and came to Mitylene.
Acts 20:15 κακειθεν αποπλευσαντες τη επιουση κατηντησαμεν αντικρυ χιου τη δε ετερα παρεβαλομεν εις σαμον και μειναντες εν τρωγυλλιω τη εχομενη ηλθομεν εις μιλητον
Acts 20:15 And we sailed thence, and came the next day over against Chios; and the next day we arrived at Samos, and tarried at Trogyllium; and the next day we came to Miletus.
Acts 20:16 εκρινεν γαρ ο παυλος παραπλευσαι την εφεσον οπως μη γενηται αυτω χρονοτριβησαι εν τη ασια εσπευδεν γαρ ει δυνατον ην αυτω την ημεραν της πεντηκοστης γενεσθαι εις ιεροσολυμα
Acts 20:16 For Paul had determined to sail by Ephesus, because he would not spend the time in Asia: for he hasted, if it were possible for him, to be at Jerusalem the day of Pentecost.
Acts 20:17 απο δε της μιλητου πεμψας εις εφεσον μετεκαλεσατο τους πρεσβυτερους της εκκλησιας
Acts 20:17 And from Miletus he sent to Ephesus, and called the elders of the church.
Acts 20:18 ως δε παρεγενοντο προς αυτον ειπεν αυτοις υμεις επιστασθε απο πρωτης ημερας αφ ης επεβην εις την ασιαν πως μεθ υμων τον παντα χρονον εγενομην
Acts 20:18 And when they were come to him, he said unto them, Ye know, from the first day that I came into Asia, after what manner I have been with you at all seasons,
Acts 20:19 δουλευων τω κυριω μετα πασης ταπεινοφροσυνης και πολλων δακρυων και πειρασμων των συμβαντων μοι εν ταις επιβουλαις των ιουδαιων
Acts 20:19 Serving the LORD with all humility of mind, and with many tears, and temptations, which befell me by the lying in wait of the Jews:
Acts 20:20 ως ουδεν υπεστειλαμην των συμφεροντων του μη αναγγειλαι υμιν και διδαξαι υμας δημοσια και κατ οικους
Acts 20:20 And how I kept back nothing that was profitable unto you, but have shewed you, and have taught you publickly, and from house to house,
Acts 20:21 διαμαρτυρομενος ιουδαιοις τε και ελλησιν την εις τον θεον μετανοιαν και πιστιν την εις τον κυριον ημων ιησουν χριστον
Acts 20:21 Testifying both to the Jews, and also to the Greeks, repentance toward God, and faith toward our Lord Jesus Christ.
Acts 20:22 και νυν ιδου εγω δεδεμενος τω πνευματι πορευομαι εις ιερουσαλημ τα εν αυτη συναντησοντα μοι μη ειδως
Acts 20:22 And now, behold, I go bound in the spirit unto Jerusalem, not knowing the things that shall befall me there:
Acts 20:23 πλην οτι το πνευμα το αγιον κατα πολιν διαμαρτυρεται λεγον οτι δεσμα με και θλιψεις μενουσιν
Acts 20:23 Save that the Holy Ghost witnesseth in every city, saying that bonds and afflictions abide me.
Acts 20:24 αλλ ουδενος λογον ποιουμαι ουδε εχω την ψυχην μου τιμιαν εμαυτω ως τελειωσαι τον δρομον μου μετα χαρας και την διακονιαν ην ελαβον παρα του κυριου ιησου διαμαρτυρασθαι το ευαγγελιον της χαριτος του θεου
Acts 20:24 But none of these things move me, neither count I my life dear unto myself, so that I might finish my course with joy, and the ministry, which I have received of the Lord Jesus, to testify the gospel of the grace of God.
Acts 20:25 και νυν ιδου εγω οιδα οτι ουκετι οψεσθε το προσωπον μου υμεις παντες εν οις διηλθον κηρυσσων την βασιλειαν του θεου
Acts 20:25 And now, behold, I know that ye all, among whom I have gone preaching the kingdom of God, shall see my face no more.
Acts 20:26 διο μαρτυρομαι υμιν εν τη σημερον ημερα οτι καθαρος εγω απο του αιματος παντων
Acts 20:26 Wherefore I take you to record this day, that I am pure from the blood of all men.
Acts 20:27 ου γαρ υπεστειλαμην του μη αναγγειλαι υμιν πασαν την βουλην του θεου
Acts 20:27 For I have not shunned to declare unto you all the counsel of God.
Acts 20:28 προσεχετε ουν εαυτοις και παντι τω ποιμνιω εν ω υμας το πνευμα το αγιον εθετο επισκοπους ποιμαινειν την εκκλησιαν του θεου ην περιεποιησατο δια του ιδιου αιματος
Acts 20:28 Take heed therefore unto yourselves, and to all the flock, over the which the Holy Ghost hath made you overseers, to feed the church of God, which he hath purchased with his own blood.
Acts 20:29 εγω γαρ οιδα τουτο οτι εισελευσονται μετα την αφιξιν μου λυκοι βαρεις εις υμας μη φειδομενοι του ποιμνιου
Acts 20:29 For I know this, that after my departing shall grievous wolves enter in among you, not sparing the flock.
Acts 20:30 και εξ υμων αυτων αναστησονται ανδρες λαλουντες διεστραμμενα του αποσπαν τους μαθητας οπισω αυτων
Acts 20:30 Also of your own selves shall men arise, speaking perverse things, to draw away disciples after them.
Acts 20:31 διο γρηγορειτε μνημονευοντες οτι τριετιαν νυκτα και ημεραν ουκ επαυσαμην μετα δακρυων νουθετων ενα εκαστον
Acts 20:31 Therefore watch, and remember, that by the space of three years I ceased not to warn every one night and day with tears.
Acts 20:32 και τανυν παρατιθεμαι υμας αδελφοι τω θεω και τω λογω της χαριτος αυτου τω δυναμενω εποικοδομησαι και δουναι υμιν κληρονομιαν εν τοις ηγιασμενοις πασιν
Acts 20:32 And now, brethren, I commend you to God, and to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up, and to give you an inheritance among all them which are sanctified.
Acts 20:33 αργυριου η χρυσιου η ιματισμου ουδενος επεθυμησα
Acts 20:33 I have coveted no man's silver, or gold, or apparel.
Acts 20:34 αυτοι δε γινωσκετε οτι ταις χρειαις μου και τοις ουσιν μετ εμου υπηρετησαν αι χειρες αυται
Acts 20:34 Yea, ye yourselves know, that these hands have ministered unto my necessities, and to them that were with me.
Acts 20:35 παντα υπεδειξα υμιν οτι ουτως κοπιωντας δει αντιλαμβανεσθαι των ασθενουντων μνημονευειν τε των λογων του κυριου ιησου οτι αυτος ειπεν μακαριον εστιν διδοναι μαλλον η λαμβανειν
Acts 20:35 I have shewed you all things, how that so labouring ye ought to support the weak, and to remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he said, It is more blessed to give than to receive.
Acts 20:36 και ταυτα ειπων θεις τα γονατα αυτου συν πασιν αυτοις προσηυξατο
Acts 20:36 And when he had thus spoken, he kneeled down, and prayed with them all.
Acts 20:37 ικανος δε εγενετο κλαυθμος παντων και επιπεσοντες επι τον τραχηλον του παυλου κατεφιλουν αυτον
Acts 20:37 And they all wept sore, and fell on Paul's neck, and kissed him,
Acts 20:38 οδυνωμενοι μαλιστα επι τω λογω ω ειρηκει οτι ουκετι μελλουσιν το προσωπον αυτου θεωρειν προεπεμπον δε αυτον εις το πλοιον
Acts 20:38 Sorrowing most of all for the words which he spake, that they should see his face no more. And they accompanied him unto the ship.
Acts 21:1 ως δε εγενετο αναχθηναι ημας αποσπασθεντας απ αυτων ευθυδρομησαντες ηλθομεν εις την κων τη δε εξης εις την ροδον κακειθεν εις παταρα
Acts 21:1 And it came to pass, that after we were gotten from them, and had launched, we came with a straight course unto Coos, and the day following unto Rhodes, and from thence unto Patara:
Acts 21:2 και ευροντες πλοιον διαπερων εις φοινικην επιβαντες ανηχθημεν
Acts 21:2 And finding a ship sailing over unto Phenicia, we went aboard, and set forth.
Acts 21:3 αναφαναντες δε την κυπρον και καταλιποντες αυτην ευωνυμον επλεομεν εις συριαν και κατηχθημεν εις τυρον εκεισε γαρ ην το πλοιον αποφορτιζομενον τον γομον
Acts 21:3 Now when we had discovered Cyprus, we left it on the left hand, and sailed into Syria, and landed at Tyre: for there the ship was to unlade her burden.
Acts 21:4 και ανευροντες τους μαθητας επεμειναμεν αυτου ημερας επτα οιτινες τω παυλω ελεγον δια του πνευματος μη αναβαινειν εις ιερουσαλημ
Acts 21:4 And finding disciples, we tarried there seven days: who said to Paul through the Spirit, that he should not go up to Jerusalem.
Acts 21:5 οτε δε εγενετο ημας εξαρτισαι τας ημερας εξελθοντες επορευομεθα προπεμποντων ημας παντων συν γυναιξιν και τεκνοις εως εξω της πολεως και θεντες τα γονατα επι τον αιγιαλον προσηυξαμεθα
Acts 21:5 And when we had accomplished those days, we departed and went our way; and they all brought us on our way, with wives and children, till we were out of the city: and we kneeled down on the shore, and prayed.
Acts 21:6 και ασπασαμενοι αλληλους επεβημεν εις το πλοιον εκεινοι δε υπεστρεψαν εις τα ιδια
Acts 21:6 And when we had taken our leave one of another, we took ship; and they returned home again.
Acts 21:7 ημεις δε τον πλουν διανυσαντες απο τυρου κατηντησαμεν εις πτολεμαιδα και ασπασαμενοι τους αδελφους εμειναμεν ημεραν μιαν παρ αυτοις
Acts 21:7 And when we had finished our course from Tyre, we came to Ptolemais, and saluted the brethren, and abode with them one day.
Acts 21:8 τη δε επαυριον εξελθοντες οι περι τον παυλον ηλθον εις καισαρειαν και εισελθοντες εις τον οικον φιλιππου του ευαγγελιστου του οντος εκ των επτα εμειναμεν παρ αυτω
Acts 21:8 And the next day we that were of Paul's company departed, and came unto Caesarea: and we entered into the house of Philip the evangelist, which was one of the seven; and abode with him.
Acts 21:9 τουτω δε ησαν θυγατερες παρθενοι τεσσαρες προφητευουσαι
Acts 21:9 And the same man had four daughters, virgins, which did prophesy.
Acts 21:10 επιμενοντων δε ημων ημερας πλειους κατηλθεν τις απο της ιουδαιας προφητης ονοματι αγαβος
Acts 21:10 And as we tarried there many days, there came down from Judaea a certain prophet, named Agabus.
Acts 21:11 και ελθων προς ημας και αρας την ζωνην του παυλου δησας τε αυτου τας χειρας και τους ποδας ειπεν ταδε λεγει το πνευμα το αγιον τον ανδρα ου εστιν η ζωνη αυτη ουτως δησουσιν εν ιερουσαλημ οι ιουδαιοι και παραδωσουσιν εις χειρας εθνων
Acts 21:11 And when he was come unto us, he took Paul's girdle, and bound his own hands and feet, and said, Thus saith the Holy Ghost, So shall the Jews at Jerusalem bind the man that owneth this girdle, and shall deliver him into the hands of the Gentiles.
Acts 21:12 ως δε ηκουσαμεν ταυτα παρεκαλουμεν ημεις τε και οι εντοπιοι του μη αναβαινειν αυτον εις ιερουσαλημ
Acts 21:12 And when we heard these things, both we, and they of that place, besought him not to go up to Jerusalem.
Acts 21:13 απεκριθη δε ο παυλος τι ποιειτε κλαιοντες και συνθρυπτοντες μου την καρδιαν εγω γαρ ου μονον δεθηναι αλλα και αποθανειν εις ιερουσαλημ ετοιμως εχω υπερ του ονοματος του κυριου ιησου
Acts 21:13 Then Paul answered, What mean ye to weep and to break mine heart? for I am ready not to be bound only, but also to die at Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus.
Acts 21:14 μη πειθομενου δε αυτου ησυχασαμεν ειποντες το θελημα του κυριου γενεσθω
Acts 21:14 And when he would not be persuaded, we ceased, saying, The will of the Lord be done.
Acts 21:15 μετα δε τας ημερας ταυτας αποσκευασαμενοι ανεβαινομεν εις ιερουσαλημ
Acts 21:15 And after those days we took up our carriages, and went up to Jerusalem.
Acts 21:16 συνηλθον δε και των μαθητων απο καισαρειας συν ημιν αγοντες παρ ω ξενισθωμεν μνασωνι τινι κυπριω αρχαιω μαθητη
Acts 21:16 There went with us also certain of the disciples of Caesarea, and brought with them one Mnason of Cyprus, an old disciple, with whom we should lodge.
Acts 21:17 γενομενων δε ημων εις ιεροσολυμα ασμενως εδεξαντο ημας οι αδελφοι
Acts 21:17 And when we were come to Jerusalem, the brethren received us gladly.
Acts 21:18 τη δε επιουση εισηει ο παυλος συν ημιν προς ιακωβον παντες τε παρεγενοντο οι πρεσβυτεροι
Acts 21:18 And the day following Paul went in with us unto James; and all the elders were present.
Acts 21:19 και ασπασαμενος αυτους εξηγειτο καθ εν εκαστον ων εποιησεν ο θεος εν τοις εθνεσιν δια της διακονιας αυτου
Acts 21:19 And when he had saluted them, he declared particularly what things God had wrought among the Gentiles by his ministry.
Acts 21:20 οι δε ακουσαντες εδοξαζον τον κυριον ειπον τε αυτω θεωρεις αδελφε ποσαι μυριαδες εισιν ιουδαιων των πεπιστευκοτων και παντες ζηλωται του νομου υπαρχουσιν
Acts 21:20 And when they heard it, they glorified the Lord, and said unto him, Thou seest, brother, how many thousands of Jews there are which believe; and they are all zealous of the law:
Acts 21:21 κατηχηθησαν δε περι σου οτι αποστασιαν διδασκεις απο μωσεως τους κατα τα εθνη παντας ιουδαιους λεγων μη περιτεμνειν αυτους τα τεκνα μηδε τοις εθεσιν περιπατειν
Acts 21:21 And they are informed of thee, that thou teachest all the Jews which are among the Gentiles to forsake Moses, saying that they ought not to circumcise their children, neither to walk after the customs.
Acts 21:22 τι ουν εστιν παντως δει πληθος συνελθειν ακουσονται γαρ οτι εληλυθας
Acts 21:22 What is it therefore? the multitude must needs come together: for they will hear that thou art come.
Acts 21:23 τουτο ουν ποιησον ο σοι λεγομεν εισιν ημιν ανδρες τεσσαρες ευχην εχοντες εφ εαυτων
Acts 21:23 Do therefore this that we say to thee: We have four men which have a vow on them;
Acts 21:24 τουτους παραλαβων αγνισθητι συν αυτοις και δαπανησον επ αυτοις ινα ξυρησωνται την κεφαλην και γνωσιν παντες οτι ων κατηχηνται περι σου ουδεν εστιν αλλα στοιχεις και αυτος τον νομον φυλασσων
Acts 21:24 Them take, and purify thyself with them, and be at charges with them, that they may shave their heads: and all may know that those things, whereof they were informed concerning thee, are nothing; but that thou thyself also walkest orderly, and keepest the law.
Acts 21:25 περι δε των πεπιστευκοτων εθνων ημεις επεστειλαμεν κριναντες μηδεν τοιουτον τηρειν αυτους ει μη φυλασσεσθαι αυτους το τε ειδωλοθυτον και το αιμα και πνικτον και πορνειαν
Acts 21:25 As touching the Gentiles which believe, we have written and concluded that they observe no such thing, save only that they keep themselves from things offered to idols, and from blood, and from strangled, and from fornication.
Acts 21:26 τοτε ο παυλος παραλαβων τους ανδρας τη εχομενη ημερα συν αυτοις αγνισθεις εισηει εις το ιερον διαγγελλων την εκπληρωσιν των ημερων του αγνισμου εως ου προσηνεχθη υπερ ενος εκαστου αυτων η προσφορα
Acts 21:26 Then Paul took the men, and the next day purifying himself with them entered into the temple, to signify the accomplishment of the days of purification, until that an offering should be offered for every one of them.
Acts 21:27 ως δε εμελλον αι επτα ημεραι συντελεισθαι οι απο της ασιας ιουδαιοι θεασαμενοι αυτον εν τω ιερω συνεχεον παντα τον οχλον και επεβαλον τας χειρας επ αυτον
Acts 21:27 And when the seven days were almost ended, the Jews which were of Asia, when they saw him in the temple, stirred up all the people, and laid hands on him,
Acts 21:28 κραζοντες ανδρες ισραηλιται βοηθειτε ουτος εστιν ο ανθρωπος ο κατα του λαου και του νομου και του τοπου τουτου παντας πανταχου διδασκων ετι τε και ελληνας εισηγαγεν εις το ιερον και κεκοινωκεν τον αγιον τοπον τουτον
Acts 21:28 Crying out, Men of Israel, help: This is the man, that teacheth all men every where against the people, and the law, and this place: and further brought Greeks also into the temple, and hath polluted this holy place.
Acts 21:29 ησαν γαρ προεωρακοτες τροφιμον τον εφεσιον εν τη πολει συν αυτω ον ενομιζον οτι εις το ιερον εισηγαγεν ο παυλος
Acts 21:29 (For they had seen before with him in the city Trophimus an Ephesian, whom they supposed that Paul had brought into the temple.)
Acts 21:30 εκινηθη τε η πολις ολη και εγενετο συνδρομη του λαου και επιλαβομενοι του παυλου ειλκον αυτον εξω του ιερου και ευθεως εκλεισθησαν αι θυραι
Acts 21:30 And all the city was moved, and the people ran together: and they took Paul, and drew him out of the temple: and forthwith the doors were shut.
Acts 21:31 ζητουντων δε αυτον αποκτειναι ανεβη φασις τω χιλιαρχω της σπειρης οτι ολη συγκεχυται ιερουσαλημ
Acts 21:31 And as they went about to kill him, tidings came unto the chief captain of the band, that all Jerusalem was in an uproar.
Acts 21:32 ος εξαυτης παραλαβων στρατιωτας και εκατονταρχους κατεδραμεν επ αυτους οι δε ιδοντες τον χιλιαρχον και τους στρατιωτας επαυσαντο τυπτοντες τον παυλον
Acts 21:32 Who immediately took soldiers and centurions, and ran down unto them: and when they saw the chief captain and the soldiers, they left beating of Paul.
Acts 21:33 τοτε εγγισας ο χιλιαρχος επελαβετο αυτου και εκελευσεν δεθηναι αλυσεσιν δυσιν και επυνθανετο τις αν ειη και τι εστιν πεποιηκως
Acts 21:33 Then the chief captain came near, and took him, and commanded him to be bound with two chains; and demanded who he was, and what he had done.
Acts 21:34 αλλοι δε αλλο τι εβοων εν τω οχλω μη δυναμενος δε γνωναι το ασφαλες δια τον θορυβον εκελευσεν αγεσθαι αυτον εις την παρεμβολην
Acts 21:34 And some cried one thing, some another, among the multitude: and when he could not know the certainty for the tumult, he commanded him to be carried into the castle.
Acts 21:35 οτε δε εγενετο επι τους αναβαθμους συνεβη βασταζεσθαι αυτον υπο των στρατιωτων δια την βιαν του οχλου
Acts 21:35 And when he came upon the stairs, so it was, that he was borne of the soldiers for the violence of the people.
Acts 21:36 ηκολουθει γαρ το πληθος του λαου κραζον αιρε αυτον
Acts 21:36 For the multitude of the people followed after, crying, Away with him.
Acts 21:37 μελλων τε εισαγεσθαι εις την παρεμβολην ο παυλος λεγει τω χιλιαρχω ει εξεστιν μοι ειπειν τι προς σε ο δε εφη ελληνιστι γινωσκεις
Acts 21:37 And as Paul was to be led into the castle, he said unto the chief captain, May I speak unto thee? Who said, Canst thou speak Greek?
Acts 21:38 ουκ αρα συ ει ο αιγυπτιος ο προ τουτων των ημερων αναστατωσας και εξαγαγων εις την ερημον τους τετρακισχιλιους ανδρας των σικαριων
Acts 21:38 Art not thou that Egyptian, which before these days madest an uproar, and leddest out into the wilderness four thousand men that were murderers?
Acts 21:39 ειπεν δε ο παυλος εγω ανθρωπος μεν ειμι ιουδαιος ταρσευς της κιλικιας ουκ ασημου πολεως πολιτης δεομαι δε σου επιτρεψον μοι λαλησαι προς τον λαον
Acts 21:39 But Paul said, I am a man which am a Jew of Tarsus, a city in Cilicia, a citizen of no mean city: and, I beseech thee, suffer me to speak unto the people.
Acts 21:40 επιτρεψαντος δε αυτου ο παυλος εστως επι των αναβαθμων κατεσεισεν τη χειρι τω λαω πολλης δε σιγης γενομενης προσεφωνησεν τη εβραιδι διαλεκτω λεγων
Acts 21:40 And when he had given him licence, Paul stood on the stairs, and beckoned with the hand unto the people. And when there was made a great silence, he spake unto them in the Hebrew tongue, saying,
Acts 22:1 ανδρες αδελφοι και πατερες ακουσατε μου της προς υμας νυν απολογιας
Acts 22:1 Men, brethren, and fathers, hear ye my defence which I make now unto you.
Acts 22:2 ακουσαντες δε οτι τη εβραιδι διαλεκτω προσεφωνει αυτοις μαλλον παρεσχον ησυχιαν και φησιν
Acts 22:2 (And when they heard that he spake in the Hebrew tongue to them, they kept the more silence: and he saith,)
Acts 22:3 εγω μεν ειμι ανηρ ιουδαιος γεγεννημενος εν ταρσω της κιλικιας ανατεθραμμενος δε εν τη πολει ταυτη παρα τους ποδας γαμαλιηλ πεπαιδευμενος κατα ακριβειαν του πατρωου νομου ζηλωτης υπαρχων του θεου καθως παντες υμεις εστε σημερον
Acts 22:3 I am verily a man which am a Jew, born in Tarsus, a city in Cilicia, yet brought up in this city at the feet of Gamaliel, and taught according to the perfect manner of the law of the fathers, and was zealous toward God, as ye all are this day.
Acts 22:4 ος ταυτην την οδον εδιωξα αχρι θανατου δεσμευων και παραδιδους εις φυλακας ανδρας τε και γυναικας
Acts 22:4 And I persecuted this way unto the death, binding and delivering into prisons both men and women.
Acts 22:5 ως και ο αρχιερευς μαρτυρει μοι και παν το πρεσβυτεριον παρ ων και επιστολας δεξαμενος προς τους αδελφους εις δαμασκον επορευομην αξων και τους εκεισε οντας δεδεμενους εις ιερουσαλημ ινα τιμωρηθωσιν
Acts 22:5 As also the high priest doth bear me witness, and all the estate of the elders: from whom also I received letters unto the brethren, and went to Damascus, to bring them which were there bound unto Jerusalem, for to be punished.
Acts 22:6 εγενετο δε μοι πορευομενω και εγγιζοντι τη δαμασκω περι μεσημβριαν εξαιφνης εκ του ουρανου περιαστραψαι φως ικανον περι εμε
Acts 22:6 And it came to pass, that, as I made my journey, and was come nigh unto Damascus about noon, suddenly there shone from heaven a great light round about me.
Acts 22:7 επεσον τε εις το εδαφος και ηκουσα φωνης λεγουσης μοι σαουλ σαουλ τι με διωκεις
Acts 22:7 And I fell unto the ground, and heard a voice saying unto me, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me?
Acts 22:8 εγω δε απεκριθην τις ει κυριε ειπεν τε προς με εγω ειμι ιησους ο ναζωραιος ον συ διωκεις
Acts 22:8 And I answered, Who art thou, Lord? And he said unto me, I am Jesus of Nazareth, whom thou persecutest.
Acts 22:9 οι δε συν εμοι οντες το μεν φως εθεασαντο και εμφοβοι εγενοντο την δε φωνην ουκ ηκουσαν του λαλουντος μοι
Acts 22:9 And they that were with me saw indeed the light, and were afraid; but they heard not the voice of him that spake to me.
Acts 22:10 ειπον δε τι ποιησω κυριε ο δε κυριος ειπεν προς με αναστας πορευου εις δαμασκον κακει σοι λαληθησεται περι παντων ων τετακται σοι ποιησαι
Acts 22:10 And I said, What shall I do, LORD? And the Lord said unto me, Arise, and go into Damascus; and there it shall be told thee of all things which are appointed for thee to do.
Acts 22:11 ως δε ουκ ενεβλεπον απο της δοξης του φωτος εκεινου χειραγωγουμενος υπο των συνοντων μοι ηλθον εις δαμασκον
Acts 22:11 And when I could not see for the glory of that light, being led by the hand of them that were with me, I came into Damascus.
Acts 22:12 ανανιας δε τις ανηρ ευσεβης κατα τον νομον μαρτυρουμενος υπο παντων των κατοικουντων ιουδαιων
Acts 22:12 And one Ananias, a devout man according to the law, having a good report of all the Jews which dwelt there,
Acts 22:13 ελθων προς με και επιστας ειπεν μοι σαουλ αδελφε αναβλεψον καγω αυτη τη ωρα ανεβλεψα εις αυτον
Acts 22:13 Came unto me, and stood, and said unto me, Brother Saul, receive thy sight. And the same hour I looked up upon him.
Acts 22:14 ο δε ειπεν ο θεος των πατερων ημων προεχειρισατο σε γνωναι το θελημα αυτου και ιδειν τον δικαιον και ακουσαι φωνην εκ του στοματος αυτου
Acts 22:14 And he said, The God of our fathers hath chosen thee, that thou shouldest know his will, and see that Just One, and shouldest hear the voice of his mouth.
Acts 22:15 οτι εση μαρτυς αυτω προς παντας ανθρωπους ων εωρακας και ηκουσας
Acts 22:15 For thou shalt be his witness unto all men of what thou hast seen and heard.
Acts 22:16 και νυν τι μελλεις αναστας βαπτισαι και απολουσαι τας αμαρτιας σου επικαλεσαμενος το ονομα του κυριου
Acts 22:16 And now why tarriest thou? arise, and be baptized, and wash away thy sins, calling on the name of the Lord.
Acts 22:17 εγενετο δε μοι υποστρεψαντι εις ιερουσαλημ και προσευχομενου μου εν τω ιερω γενεσθαι με εν εκστασει
Acts 22:17 And it came to pass, that, when I was come again to Jerusalem, even while I prayed in the temple, I was in a trance;
Acts 22:18 και ιδειν αυτον λεγοντα μοι σπευσον και εξελθε εν ταχει εξ ιερουσαλημ διοτι ου παραδεξονται σου την μαρτυριαν περι εμου
Acts 22:18 And saw him saying unto me, Make haste, and get thee quickly out of Jerusalem: for they will not receive thy testimony concerning me.
Acts 22:19 καγω ειπον κυριε αυτοι επιστανται οτι εγω ημην φυλακιζων και δερων κατα τας συναγωγας τους πιστευοντας επι σε
Acts 22:19 And I said, Lord, they know that I imprisoned and beat in every synagogue them that believed on thee:
Acts 22:20 και οτε εξεχειτο το αιμα στεφανου του μαρτυρος σου και αυτος ημην εφεστως και συνευδοκων τη αναιρεσει αυτου και φυλασσων τα ιματια των αναιρουντων αυτον
Acts 22:20 And when the blood of thy martyr Stephen was shed, I also was standing by, and consenting unto his death, and kept the raiment of them that slew him.
Acts 22:21 και ειπεν προς με πορευου οτι εγω εις εθνη μακραν εξαποστελω σε
Acts 22:21 And he said unto me, Depart: for I will send thee far hence unto the Gentiles.
Acts 22:22 ηκουον δε αυτου αχρι τουτου του λογου και επηραν την φωνην αυτων λεγοντες αιρε απο της γης τον τοιουτον ου γαρ καθηκον αυτον ζην
Acts 22:22 And they gave him audience unto this word, and then lifted up their voices, and said, Away with such a fellow from the earth: for it is not fit that he should live.
Acts 22:23 κραυγαζοντων δε αυτων και ριπτουντων τα ιματια και κονιορτον βαλλοντων εις τον αερα
Acts 22:23 And as they cried out, and cast off their clothes, and threw dust into the air,
Acts 22:24 εκελευσεν αυτον ο χιλιαρχος αγεσθαι εις την παρεμβολην ειπων μαστιξιν ανεταζεσθαι αυτον ινα επιγνω δι ην αιτιαν ουτως επεφωνουν αυτω
Acts 22:24 The chief captain commanded him to be brought into the castle, and bade that he should be examined by scourging; that he might know wherefore they cried so against him.
Acts 22:25 ως δε προετεινεν αυτον τοις ιμασιν ειπεν προς τον εστωτα εκατονταρχον ο παυλος ει ανθρωπον ρωμαιον και ακατακριτον εξεστιν υμιν μαστιζειν
Acts 22:25 And as they bound him with thongs, Paul said unto the centurion that stood by, Is it lawful for you to scourge a man that is a Roman, and uncondemned?
Acts 22:26 ακουσας δε ο εκατονταρχος προσελθων απηγγειλεν τω χιλιαρχω λεγων ορα τι μελλεις ποιειν ο γαρ ανθρωπος ουτος ρωμαιος εστιν
Acts 22:26 When the centurion heard that, he went and told the chief captain, saying, Take heed what thou doest: for this man is a Roman.
Acts 22:27 προσελθων δε ο χιλιαρχος ειπεν αυτω λεγε μοι ει συ ρωμαιος ει ο δε εφη ναι
Acts 22:27 Then the chief captain came, and said unto him, Tell me, art thou a Roman? He said, Yea.
Acts 22:28 απεκριθη τε ο χιλιαρχος εγω πολλου κεφαλαιου την πολιτειαν ταυτην εκτησαμην ο δε παυλος εφη εγω δε και γεγεννημαι
Acts 22:28 And the chief captain answered, With a great sum obtained I this freedom. And Paul said, But I was free born.
Acts 22:29 ευθεως ουν απεστησαν απ αυτου οι μελλοντες αυτον ανεταζειν και ο χιλιαρχος δε εφοβηθη επιγνους οτι ρωμαιος εστιν και οτι ην αυτον δεδεκως
Acts 22:29 Then straightway they departed from him which should have examined him: and the chief captain also was afraid, after he knew that he was a Roman, and because he had bound him.
Acts 22:30 τη δε επαυριον βουλομενος γνωναι το ασφαλες το τι κατηγορειται παρα των ιουδαιων ελυσεν αυτον απο των δεσμων και εκελευσεν ελθειν τους αρχιερεις και ολον το συνεδριον αυτων και καταγαγων τον παυλον εστησεν εις αυτους
Acts 22:30 On the morrow, because he would have known the certainty wherefore he was accused of the Jews, he loosed him from his bands, and commanded the chief priests and all their council to appear, and brought Paul down, and set him before them.
Acts 23:1 ατενισας δε ο παυλος τω συνεδριω ειπεν ανδρες αδελφοι εγω παση συνειδησει αγαθη πεπολιτευμαι τω θεω αχρι ταυτης της ημερας
Acts 23:1 And Paul, earnestly beholding the council, said, Men and brethren, I have lived in all good conscience before God until this day.
Acts 23:2 ο δε αρχιερευς ανανιας επεταξεν τοις παρεστωσιν αυτω τυπτειν αυτου το στομα
Acts 23:2 And the high priest Ananias commanded them that stood by him to smite him on the mouth.
Acts 23:3 τοτε ο παυλος προς αυτον ειπεν τυπτειν σε μελλει ο θεος τοιχε κεκονιαμενε και συ καθη κρινων με κατα τον νομον και παρανομων κελευεις με τυπτεσθαι
Acts 23:3 Then said Paul unto him, God shall smite thee, thou whited wall: for sittest thou to judge me after the law, and commandest me to be smitten contrary to the law?
Acts 23:4 οι δε παρεστωτες ειπον τον αρχιερεα του θεου λοιδορεις
Acts 23:4 And they that stood by said, Revilest thou God's high priest?
Acts 23:5 εφη τε ο παυλος ουκ ηδειν αδελφοι οτι εστιν αρχιερευς γεγραπται γαρ αρχοντα του λαου σου ουκ ερεις κακως
Acts 23:5 Then said Paul, I wist not, brethren, that he was the high priest: for it is written, Thou shalt not speak evil of the ruler of thy people.
Acts 23:6 γνους δε ο παυλος οτι το εν μερος εστιν σαδδουκαιων το δε ετερον φαρισαιων εκραξεν εν τω συνεδριω ανδρες αδελφοι εγω φαρισαιος ειμι υιος φαρισαιου περι ελπιδος και αναστασεως νεκρων εγω κρινομαι
Acts 23:6 But when Paul perceived that the one part were Sadducees, and the other Pharisees, he cried out in the council, Men and brethren, I am a Pharisee, the son of a Pharisee: of the hope and resurrection of the dead I am called in question.
Acts 23:7 τουτο δε αυτου λαλησαντος εγενετο στασις των φαρισαιων και των σαδδουκαιων και εσχισθη το πληθος
Acts 23:7 And when he had so said, there arose a dissension between the Pharisees and the Sadducees: and the multitude was divided.
Acts 23:8 σαδδουκαιοι μεν γαρ λεγουσιν μη ειναι αναστασιν μηδε αγγελον μητε πνευμα φαρισαιοι δε ομολογουσιν τα αμφοτερα
Acts 23:8 For the Sadducees say that there is no resurrection, neither angel, nor spirit: but the Pharisees confess both.
Acts 23:9 εγενετο δε κραυγη μεγαλη και ανασταντες οι γραμματεις του μερους των φαρισαιων διεμαχοντο λεγοντες ουδεν κακον ευρισκομεν εν τω ανθρωπω τουτω ει δε πνευμα ελαλησεν αυτω η αγγελος μη θεομαχωμεν
Acts 23:9 And there arose a great cry: and the scribes that were of the Pharisees' part arose, and strove, saying, We find no evil in this man: but if a spirit or an angel hath spoken to him, let us not fight against God.
Acts 23:10 πολλης δε γενομενης στασεως ευλαβηθεις ο χιλιαρχος μη διασπασθη ο παυλος υπ αυτων εκελευσεν το στρατευμα καταβαν αρπασαι αυτον εκ μεσου αυτων αγειν τε εις την παρεμβολην
Acts 23:10 And when there arose a great dissension, the chief captain, fearing lest Paul should have been pulled in pieces of them, commanded the soldiers to go down, and to take him by force from among them, and to bring him into the castle.
Acts 23:11 τη δε επιουση νυκτι επιστας αυτω ο κυριος ειπεν θαρσει παυλε ως γαρ διεμαρτυρω τα περι εμου εις ιερουσαλημ ουτως σε δει και εις ρωμην μαρτυρησαι
Acts 23:11 And the night following the Lord stood by him, and said, Be of good cheer, Paul: for as thou hast testified of me in Jerusalem, so must thou bear witness also at Rome.
Acts 23:12 γενομενης δε ημερας ποιησαντες τινες των ιουδαιων συστροφην ανεθεματισαν εαυτους λεγοντες μητε φαγειν μητε πιειν εως ου αποκτεινωσιν τον παυλον
Acts 23:12 And when it was day, certain of the Jews banded together, and bound themselves under a curse, saying that they would neither eat nor drink till they had killed Paul.
Acts 23:13 ησαν δε πλειους τεσσαρακοντα οι ταυτην την συνωμοσιαν πεποιηκοτες
Acts 23:13 And they were more than forty which had made this conspiracy.
Acts 23:14 οιτινες προσελθοντες τοις αρχιερευσιν και τοις πρεσβυτεροις ειπον αναθεματι ανεθεματισαμεν εαυτους μηδενος γευσασθαι εως ου αποκτεινωμεν τον παυλον
Acts 23:14 And they came to the chief priests and elders, and said, We have bound ourselves under a great curse, that we will eat nothing until we have slain Paul.
Acts 23:15 νυν ουν υμεις εμφανισατε τω χιλιαρχω συν τω συνεδριω οπως αυριον αυτον καταγαγη προς υμας ως μελλοντας διαγινωσκειν ακριβεστερον τα περι αυτου ημεις δε προ του εγγισαι αυτον ετοιμοι εσμεν του ανελειν αυτον
Acts 23:15 Now therefore ye with the council signify to the chief captain that he bring him down unto you to morrow, as though ye would enquire something more perfectly concerning him: and we, or ever he come near, are ready to kill him.
Acts 23:16 ακουσας δε ο υιος της αδελφης παυλου το ενεδρον παραγενομενος και εισελθων εις την παρεμβολην απηγγειλεν τω παυλω
Acts 23:16 And when Paul's sister's son heard of their lying in wait, he went and entered into the castle, and told Paul.
Acts 23:17 προσκαλεσαμενος δε ο παυλος ενα των εκατονταρχων εφη τον νεανιαν τουτον απαγαγε προς τον χιλιαρχον εχει γαρ τι απαγγειλαι αυτω
Acts 23:17 Then Paul called one of the centurions unto him, and said, Bring this young man unto the chief captain: for he hath a certain thing to tell him.
Acts 23:18 ο μεν ουν παραλαβων αυτον ηγαγεν προς τον χιλιαρχον και φησιν ο δεσμιος παυλος προσκαλεσαμενος με ηρωτησεν τουτον τον νεανιαν αγαγειν προς σε εχοντα τι λαλησαι σοι
Acts 23:18 So he took him, and brought him to the chief captain, and said, Paul the prisoner called me unto him, and prayed me to bring this young man unto thee, who hath something to say unto thee.
Acts 23:19 επιλαβομενος δε της χειρος αυτου ο χιλιαρχος και αναχωρησας κατ ιδιαν επυνθανετο τι εστιν ο εχεις απαγγειλαι μοι
Acts 23:19 Then the chief captain took him by the hand, and went with him aside privately, and asked him, What is that thou hast to tell me?
Acts 23:20 ειπεν δε οτι οι ιουδαιοι συνεθεντο του ερωτησαι σε οπως αυριον εις το συνεδριον καταγαγης τον παυλον ως μελλοντες τι ακριβεστερον πυνθανεσθαι περι αυτου
Acts 23:20 And he said, The Jews have agreed to desire thee that thou wouldest bring down Paul to morrow into the council, as though they would enquire somewhat of him more perfectly.
Acts 23:21 συ ουν μη πεισθης αυτοις ενεδρευουσιν γαρ αυτον εξ αυτων ανδρες πλειους τεσσαρακοντα οιτινες ανεθεματισαν εαυτους μητε φαγειν μητε πιειν εως ου ανελωσιν αυτον και νυν ετοιμοι εισιν προσδεχομενοι την απο σου επαγγελιαν
Acts 23:21 But do not thou yield unto them: for there lie in wait for him of them more than forty men, which have bound themselves with an oath, that they will neither eat nor drink till they have killed him: and now are they ready, looking for a promise from thee.
Acts 23:22 ο μεν ουν χιλιαρχος απελυσεν τον νεανιαν παραγγειλας μηδενι εκλαλησαι οτι ταυτα ενεφανισας προς με
Acts 23:22 So the chief captain then let the young man depart, and charged him, See thou tell no man that thou hast shewed these things to me.
Acts 23:23 και προσκαλεσαμενος δυο τινας των εκατονταρχων ειπεν ετοιμασατε στρατιωτας διακοσιους οπως πορευθωσιν εως καισαρειας και ιππεις εβδομηκοντα και δεξιολαβους διακοσιους απο τριτης ωρας της νυκτος
Acts 23:23 And he called unto him two centurions, saying, Make ready two hundred soldiers to go to Caesarea, and horsemen threescore and ten, and spearmen two hundred, at the third hour of the night;
Acts 23:24 κτηνη τε παραστησαι ινα επιβιβασαντες τον παυλον διασωσωσιν προς φηλικα τον ηγεμονα
Acts 23:24 And provide them beasts, that they may set Paul on, and bring him safe unto Felix the governor.
Acts 23:25 γραψας επιστολην περιεχουσαν τον τυπον τουτον
Acts 23:25 And he wrote a letter after this manner:
Acts 23:26 κλαυδιος λυσιας τω κρατιστω ηγεμονι φηλικι χαιρειν
Acts 23:26 Claudius Lysias unto the most excellent governor Felix sendeth greeting.
Acts 23:27 τον ανδρα τουτον συλληφθεντα υπο των ιουδαιων και μελλοντα αναιρεισθαι υπ αυτων επιστας συν τω στρατευματι εξειλομην αυτον μαθων οτι ρωμαιος εστιν
Acts 23:27 This man was taken of the Jews, and should have been killed of them: then came I with an army, and rescued him, having understood that he was a Roman.
Acts 23:28 βουλομενος δε γνωναι την αιτιαν δι ην ενεκαλουν αυτω κατηγαγον αυτον εις το συνεδριον αυτων
Acts 23:28 And when I would have known the cause wherefore they accused him, I brought him forth into their council:
Acts 23:29 ον ευρον εγκαλουμενον περι ζητηματων του νομου αυτων μηδεν δε αξιον θανατου η δεσμων εγκλημα εχοντα
Acts 23:29 Whom I perceived to be accused of questions of their law, but to have nothing laid to his charge worthy of death or of bonds.
Acts 23:30 μηνυθεισης δε μοι επιβουλης εις τον ανδρα μελλειν εσεσθαι υπο των ιουδαιων εξαυτης επεμψα προς σε παραγγειλας και τοις κατηγοροις λεγειν τα προς αυτον επι σου ερρωσο
Acts 23:30 And when it was told me how that the Jews laid wait for the man, I sent straightway to thee, and gave commandment to his accusers also to say before thee what they had against him.  Farewell.
Acts 23:31 οι μεν ουν στρατιωται κατα το διατεταγμενον αυτοις αναλαβοντες τον παυλον ηγαγον δια της νυκτος εις την αντιπατριδα
Acts 23:31 Then the soldiers, as it was commanded them, took Paul, and brought him by night to Antipatris.
Acts 23:32 τη δε επαυριον εασαντες τους ιππεις πορευεσθαι συν αυτω υπεστρεψαν εις την παρεμβολην
Acts 23:32 On the morrow they left the horsemen to go with him, and returned to the castle:
Acts 23:33 οιτινες εισελθοντες εις την καισαρειαν και αναδοντες την επιστολην τω ηγεμονι παρεστησαν και τον παυλον αυτω
Acts 23:33 Who, when they came to Caesarea and delivered the epistle to the governor, presented Paul also before him.
Acts 23:34 αναγνους δε ο ηγεμων και επερωτησας εκ ποιας επαρχιας εστιν και πυθομενος οτι απο κιλικιας
Acts 23:34 And when the governor had read the letter, he asked of what province he was. And when he understood that he was of Cilicia;
Acts 23:35 διακουσομαι σου εφη οταν και οι κατηγοροι σου παραγενωνται εκελευσεν τε αυτον εν τω πραιτωριω του ηρωδου φυλασσεσθαι
Acts 23:35 I will hear thee, said he, when thine accusers are also come.  And he commanded him to be kept in Herod's judgment hall.
Acts 24:1 μετα δε πεντε ημερας κατεβη ο αρχιερευς ανανιας μετα των πρεσβυτερων και ρητορος τερτυλλου τινος οιτινες ενεφανισαν τω ηγεμονι κατα του παυλου
Acts 24:1 And after five days Ananias the high priest descended with the elders, and with a certain orator named Tertullus, who informed the governor against Paul.
Acts 24:2 κληθεντος δε αυτου ηρξατο κατηγορειν ο τερτυλλος λεγων
Acts 24:2 And when he was called forth, Tertullus began to accuse him, saying, Seeing that by thee we enjoy great quietness, and that very worthy deeds are done unto this nation by thy providence,
Acts 24:3 πολλης ειρηνης τυγχανοντες δια σου και κατορθωματων γινομενων τω εθνει τουτω δια της σης προνοιας παντη τε και πανταχου αποδεχομεθα κρατιστε φηλιξ μετα πασης ευχαριστιας
Acts 24:3 We accept it always, and in all places, most noble Felix, with all thankfulness.
Acts 24:4 ινα δε μη επι πλειον σε εγκοπτω παρακαλω ακουσαι σε ημων συντομως τη ση επιεικεια
Acts 24:4 Notwithstanding, that I be not further tedious unto thee, I pray thee that thou wouldest hear us of thy clemency a few words.
Acts 24:5 ευροντες γαρ τον ανδρα τουτον λοιμον και κινουντα στασιν πασιν τοις ιουδαιοις τοις κατα την οικουμενην πρωτοστατην τε της των ναζωραιων αιρεσεως
Acts 24:5 For we have found this man a pestilent fellow, and a mover of sedition among all the Jews throughout the world, and a ringleader of the sect of the Nazarenes:
Acts 24:6 ος και το ιερον επειρασεν βεβηλωσαι ον και εκρατησαμεν και κατα τον ημετερον νομον ηθελησαμεν κρινειν
Acts 24:6 Who also hath gone about to profane the temple: whom we took, and would have judged according to our law.
Acts 24:7 παρελθων δε λυσιας ο χιλιαρχος μετα πολλης βιας εκ των χειρων ημων απηγαγεν
Acts 24:7 But the chief captain Lysias came upon us, and with great violence took him away out of our hands,
Acts 24:8 κελευσας τους κατηγορους αυτου ερχεσθαι επι σε παρ ου δυνηση αυτος ανακρινας περι παντων τουτων επιγνωναι ων ημεις κατηγορουμεν αυτου
Acts 24:8 Commanding his accusers to come unto thee: by examining of whom thyself mayest take knowledge of all these things, whereof we accuse him.
Acts 24:9 συνεθεντο δε και οι ιουδαιοι φασκοντες ταυτα ουτως εχειν
Acts 24:9 And the Jews also assented, saying that these things were so.
Acts 24:10 απεκριθη δε ο παυλος νευσαντος αυτω του ηγεμονος λεγειν εκ πολλων ετων οντα σε κριτην τω εθνει τουτω επισταμενος ευθυμοτερον τα περι εμαυτου απολογουμαι
Acts 24:10 Then Paul, after that the governor had beckoned unto him to speak, answered, Forasmuch as I know that thou hast been of many years a judge unto this nation, I do the more cheerfully answer for myself:
Acts 24:11 δυναμενου σου γνωναι οτι ου πλειους εισιν μοι ημεραι η δεκαδυο αφ ης ανεβην προσκυνησων εν ιερουσαλημ
Acts 24:11 Because that thou mayest understand, that there are yet but twelve days since I went up to Jerusalem for to worship.
Acts 24:12 και ουτε εν τω ιερω ευρον με προς τινα διαλεγομενον η επισυστασιν ποιουντα οχλου ουτε εν ταις συναγωγαις ουτε κατα την πολιν
Acts 24:12 And they neither found me in the temple disputing with any man, neither raising up the people, neither in the synagogues, nor in the city:
Acts 24:13 ουτε παραστησαι με δυνανται περι ων νυν κατηγορουσιν μου
Acts 24:13 Neither can they prove the things whereof they now accuse me.
Acts 24:14 ομολογω δε τουτο σοι οτι κατα την οδον ην λεγουσιν αιρεσιν ουτως λατρευω τω πατρωω θεω πιστευων πασιν τοις κατα τον νομον και τοις προφηταις γεγραμμενοις
Acts 24:14 But this I confess unto thee, that after the way which they call heresy, so worship I the God of my fathers, believing all things which are written in the law and in the prophets:
Acts 24:15 ελπιδα εχων εις τον θεον ην και αυτοι ουτοι προσδεχονται αναστασιν μελλειν εσεσθαι νεκρων δικαιων τε και αδικων
Acts 24:15 And have hope toward God, which they themselves also allow, that there shall be a resurrection of the dead, both of the just and unjust.
Acts 24:16 εν τουτω δε αυτος ασκω απροσκοπον συνειδησιν εχειν προς τον θεον και τους ανθρωπους διαπαντος
Acts 24:16 And herein do I exercise myself, to have always a conscience void to offence toward God, and toward men.
Acts 24:17 δι ετων δε πλειονων παρεγενομην ελεημοσυνας ποιησων εις το εθνος μου και προσφορας
Acts 24:17 Now after many years I came to bring alms to my nation, and offerings.
Acts 24:18 εν οις ευρον με ηγνισμενον εν τω ιερω ου μετα οχλου ουδε μετα θορυβου τινες δε απο της ασιας ιουδαιοι
Acts 24:18 Whereupon certain Jews from Asia found me purified in the temple, neither with multitude, nor with tumult.
Acts 24:19 ους δει επι σου παρειναι και κατηγορειν ει τι εχοιεν προς με
Acts 24:19 Who ought to have been here before thee, and object, if they had ought against me.
Acts 24:20 η αυτοι ουτοι ειπατωσαν ει τι ευρον εν εμοι αδικημα σταντος μου επι του συνεδριου
Acts 24:20 Or else let these same here say, if they have found any evil doing in me, while I stood before the council,
Acts 24:21 η περι μιας ταυτης φωνης ης εκραξα εστως εν αυτοις οτι περι αναστασεως νεκρων εγω κρινομαι σημερον υφ υμων
Acts 24:21 Except it be for this one voice, that I cried standing among them, Touching the resurrection of the dead I am called in question by you this day.
Acts 24:22 ακουσας δε ταυτα ο φηλιξ ανεβαλετο αυτους ακριβεστερον ειδως τα περι της οδου ειπων οταν λυσιας ο χιλιαρχος καταβη διαγνωσομαι τα καθ υμας
Acts 24:22 And when Felix heard these things, having more perfect knowledge of that way, he deferred them, and said, When Lysias the chief captain shall come down, I will know the uttermost of your matter.
Acts 24:23 διαταξαμενος τε τω εκατονταρχη τηρεισθαι τον παυλον εχειν τε ανεσιν και μηδενα κωλυειν των ιδιων αυτου υπηρετειν η προσερχεσθαι αυτω
Acts 24:23 And he commanded a centurion to keep Paul, and to let him have liberty, and that he should forbid none of his acquaintance to minister or come unto him.
Acts 24:24 μετα δε ημερας τινας παραγενομενος ο φηλιξ συν δρουσιλλη τη γυναικι αυτου ουση ιουδαια μετεπεμψατο τον παυλον και ηκουσεν αυτου περι της εις χριστον πιστεως
Acts 24:24 And after certain days, when Felix came with his wife Drusilla, which was a Jewess, he sent for Paul, and heard him concerning the faith in Christ.
Acts 24:25 διαλεγομενου δε αυτου περι δικαιοσυνης και εγκρατειας και του κριματος του μελλοντος εσεσθαι εμφοβος γενομενος ο φηλιξ απεκριθη το νυν εχον πορευου καιρον δε μεταλαβων μετακαλεσομαι σε
Acts 24:25 And as he reasoned of righteousness, temperance, and judgment to come, Felix trembled, and answered, Go thy way for this time; when I have a convenient season, I will call for thee.
Acts 24:26 αμα δε και ελπιζων οτι χρηματα δοθησεται αυτω υπο του παυλου οπως λυση αυτον διο και πυκνοτερον αυτον μεταπεμπομενος ωμιλει αυτω
Acts 24:26 He hoped also that money should have been given him of Paul, that he might loose him: wherefore he sent for him the oftener, and communed with him.
Acts 24:27 διετιας δε πληρωθεισης ελαβεν διαδοχον ο φηλιξ πορκιον φηστον θελων τε χαριτας καταθεσθαι τοις ιουδαιοις ο φηλιξ κατελιπεν τον παυλον δεδεμενον
Acts 24:27 But after two years Porcius Festus came into Felix' room: and Felix, willing to shew the Jews a pleasure, left Paul bound.
Acts 25:1 φηστος ουν επιβας τη επαρχια μετα τρεις ημερας ανεβη εις ιεροσολυμα απο καισαρειας
Acts 25:1 Now when Festus was come into the province, after three days he ascended from Caesarea to Jerusalem.
Acts 25:2 ενεφανισαν δε αυτω ο αρχιερευς και οι πρωτοι των ιουδαιων κατα του παυλου και παρεκαλουν αυτον
Acts 25:2 Then the high priest and the chief of the Jews informed him against Paul, and besought him,
Acts 25:3 αιτουμενοι χαριν κατ αυτου οπως μεταπεμψηται αυτον εις ιερουσαλημ ενεδραν ποιουντες ανελειν αυτον κατα την οδον
Acts 25:3 And desired favour against him, that he would send for him to Jerusalem, laying wait in the way to kill him.
Acts 25:4 ο μεν ουν φηστος απεκριθη τηρεισθαι τον παυλον εν καισαρεια εαυτον δε μελλειν εν ταχει εκπορευεσθαι
Acts 25:4 But Festus answered, that Paul should be kept at Caesarea, and that he himself would depart shortly thither.
Acts 25:5 οι ουν δυνατοι εν υμιν φησιν συγκαταβαντες ει τι εστιν εν τω ανδρι τουτω κατηγορειτωσαν αυτου
Acts 25:5 Let them therefore, said he, which among you are able, go down with me, and accuse this man, if there be any wickedness in him.
Acts 25:6 διατριψας δε εν αυτοις ημερας πλειους η δεκα καταβας εις καισαρειαν τη επαυριον καθισας επι του βηματος εκελευσεν τον παυλον αχθηναι
Acts 25:6 And when he had tarried among them more than ten days, he went down unto Caesarea; and the next day sitting on the judgment seat commanded Paul to be brought.
Acts 25:7 παραγενομενου δε αυτου περιεστησαν οι απο ιεροσολυμων καταβεβηκοτες ιουδαιοι πολλα και βαρεα αιτιαματα φεροντες κατα του παυλου α ουκ ισχυον αποδειξαι
Acts 25:7 And when he was come, the Jews which came down from Jerusalem stood round about, and laid many and grievous complaints against Paul, which they could not prove.
Acts 25:8 απολογουμενου αυτου οτι ουτε εις τον νομον των ιουδαιων ουτε εις το ιερον ουτε εις καισαρα τι ημαρτον
Acts 25:8 While he answered for himself, Neither against the law of the Jews, neither against the temple, nor yet against Caesar, have I offended any thing at all.
Acts 25:9 ο φηστος δε τοις ιουδαιοις θελων χαριν καταθεσθαι αποκριθεις τω παυλω ειπεν θελεις εις ιεροσολυμα αναβας εκει περι τουτων κρινεσθαι επ εμου
Acts 25:9 But Festus, willing to do the Jews a pleasure, answered Paul, and said, Wilt thou go up to Jerusalem, and there be judged of these things before me?
Acts 25:10 ειπεν δε ο παυλος επι του βηματος καισαρος εστως ειμι ου με δει κρινεσθαι ιουδαιους ουδεν ηδικησα ως και συ καλλιον επιγινωσκεις
Acts 25:10 Then said Paul, I stand at Caesar's judgment seat, where I ought to be judged: to the Jews have I done no wrong, as thou very well knowest.
Acts 25:11 ει μεν γαρ αδικω και αξιον θανατου πεπραχα τι ου παραιτουμαι το αποθανειν ει δε ουδεν εστιν ων ουτοι κατηγορουσιν μου ουδεις με δυναται αυτοις χαρισασθαι καισαρα επικαλουμαι
Acts 25:11 For if I be an offender, or have committed any thing worthy of death, I refuse not to die: but if there be none of these things whereof these accuse me, no man may deliver me unto them. I appeal unto Caesar.
Acts 25:12 τοτε ο φηστος συλλαλησας μετα του συμβουλιου απεκριθη καισαρα επικεκλησαι επι καισαρα πορευση
Acts 25:12 Then Festus, when he had conferred with the council, answered, Hast thou appealed unto Caesar? unto Caesar shalt thou go.
Acts 25:13 ημερων δε διαγενομενων τινων αγριππας ο βασιλευς και βερνικη κατηντησαν εις καισαρειαν ασπασομενοι τον φηστον
Acts 25:13 And after certain days king Agrippa and Bernice came unto Caesarea to salute Festus.
Acts 25:14 ως δε πλειους ημερας διετριβον εκει ο φηστος τω βασιλει ανεθετο τα κατα τον παυλον λεγων ανηρ τις εστιν καταλελειμμενος υπο φηλικος δεσμιος
Acts 25:14 And when they had been there many days, Festus declared Paul's cause unto the king, saying, There is a certain man left in bonds by Felix:
Acts 25:15 περι ου γενομενου μου εις ιεροσολυμα ενεφανισαν οι αρχιερεις και οι πρεσβυτεροι των ιουδαιων αιτουμενοι κατ αυτου δικην
Acts 25:15 About whom, when I was at Jerusalem, the chief priests and the elders of the Jews informed me, desiring to have judgment against him.
Acts 25:16 προς ους απεκριθην οτι ουκ εστιν εθος ρωμαιοις χαριζεσθαι τινα ανθρωπον εις απωλειαν πριν η ο κατηγορουμενος κατα προσωπον εχοι τους κατηγορους τοπον τε απολογιας λαβοι περι του εγκληματος
Acts 25:16 To whom I answered, It is not the manner of the Romans to deliver any man to die, before that he which is accused have the accusers face to face, and have licence to answer for himself concerning the crime laid against him.
Acts 25:17 συνελθοντων ουν αυτων ενθαδε αναβολην μηδεμιαν ποιησαμενος τη εξης καθισας επι του βηματος εκελευσα αχθηναι τον ανδρα
Acts 25:17 Therefore, when they were come hither, without any delay on the morrow I sat on the judgment seat, and commanded the man to be brought forth.
Acts 25:18 περι ου σταθεντες οι κατηγοροι ουδεμιαν αιτιαν επεφερον ων υπενοουν εγω
Acts 25:18 Against whom when the accusers stood up, they brought none accusation of such things as I supposed:
Acts 25:19 ζητηματα δε τινα περι της ιδιας δεισιδαιμονιας ειχον προς αυτον και περι τινος ιησου τεθνηκοτος ον εφασκεν ο παυλος ζην
Acts 25:19 But had certain questions against him of their own superstition, and of one Jesus, which was dead, whom Paul affirmed to be alive.
Acts 25:20 απορουμενος δε εγω εις την περι τουτου ζητησιν ελεγον ει βουλοιτο πορευεσθαι εις ιερουσαλημ κακει κρινεσθαι περι τουτων
Acts 25:20 And because I doubted of such manner of questions, I asked him whether he would go to Jerusalem, and there be judged of these matters.
Acts 25:21 του δε παυλου επικαλεσαμενου τηρηθηναι αυτον εις την του σεβαστου διαγνωσιν εκελευσα τηρεισθαι αυτον εως ου πεμψω αυτον προς καισαρα
Acts 25:21 But when Paul had appealed to be reserved unto the hearing of Augustus, I commanded him to be kept till I might send him to Caesar.
Acts 25:22 αγριππας δε προς τον φηστον εφη εβουλομην και αυτος του ανθρωπου ακουσαι ο δε αυριον φησιν ακουση αυτου
Acts 25:22 Then Agrippa said unto Festus, I would also hear the man myself. To morrow, said he, thou shalt hear him.
Acts 25:23 τη ουν επαυριον ελθοντος του αγριππα και της βερνικης μετα πολλης φαντασιας και εισελθοντων εις το ακροατηριον συν τε τοις χιλιαρχοις και ανδρασιν τοις κατ εξοχην ουσιν της πολεως και κελευσαντος του φηστου ηχθη ο παυλος
Acts 25:23 And on the morrow, when Agrippa was come, and Bernice, with great pomp, and was entered into the place of hearing, with the chief captains, and principal men of the city, at Festus' commandment Paul was brought forth.
Acts 25:24 και φησιν ο φηστος αγριππα βασιλευ και παντες οι συμπαροντες ημιν ανδρες θεωρειτε τουτον περι ου παν το πληθος των ιουδαιων ενετυχον μοι εν τε ιεροσολυμοις και ενθαδε επιβοωντες μη δειν ζην αυτον μηκετι
Acts 25:24 And Festus said, King Agrippa, and all men which are here present with us, ye see this man, about whom all the multitude of the Jews have dealt with me, both at Jerusalem, and also here, crying that he ought not to live any longer.
Acts 25:25 εγω δε καταλαβομενος μηδεν αξιον θανατου αυτον πεπραχεναι και αυτου δε τουτου επικαλεσαμενου τον σεβαστον εκρινα πεμπειν αυτον
Acts 25:25 But when I found that he had committed nothing worthy of death, and that he himself hath appealed to Augustus, I have determined to send him.
Acts 25:26 περι ου ασφαλες τι γραψαι τω κυριω ουκ εχω διο προηγαγον αυτον εφ υμων και μαλιστα επι σου βασιλευ αγριππα οπως της ανακρισεως γενομενης σχω τι γραψαι
Acts 25:26 Of whom I have no certain thing to write unto my lord.  Wherefore I have brought him forth before you, and specially before thee, O king Agrippa, that, after examination had, I might have somewhat to write.
Acts 25:27 αλογον γαρ μοι δοκει πεμποντα δεσμιον μη και τας κατ αυτου αιτιας σημαναι
Acts 25:27 For it seemeth to me unreasonable to send a prisoner, and not withal to signify the crimes laid against him.
Acts 26:1 αγριππας δε προς τον παυλον εφη επιτρεπεται σοι υπερ σεαυτου λεγειν τοτε ο παυλος απελογειτο εκτεινας την χειρα
Acts 26:1 Then Agrippa said unto Paul, Thou art permitted to speak for thyself. Then Paul stretched forth the hand, and answered for himself:
Acts 26:2 περι παντων ων εγκαλουμαι υπο ιουδαιων βασιλευ αγριππα ηγημαι εμαυτον μακαριον μελλων απολογεισθαι επι σου σημερον
Acts 26:2 I think myself happy, king Agrippa, because I shall answer for myself this day before thee touching all the things whereof I am accused of the Jews:
Acts 26:3 μαλιστα γνωστην οντα σε παντων των κατα ιουδαιους εθων τε και ζητηματων διο δεομαι σου μακροθυμως ακουσαι μου
Acts 26:3 Especially because I know thee to be expert in all customs and questions which are among the Jews: wherefore I beseech thee to hear me patiently.
Acts 26:4 την μεν ουν βιωσιν μου την εκ νεοτητος την απ αρχης γενομενην εν τω εθνει μου εν ιεροσολυμοις ισασιν παντες οι ιουδαιοι
Acts 26:4 My manner of life from my youth, which was at the first among mine own nation at Jerusalem, know all the Jews;
Acts 26:5 προγινωσκοντες με ανωθεν εαν θελωσιν μαρτυρειν οτι κατα την ακριβεστατην αιρεσιν της ημετερας θρησκειας εζησα φαρισαιος
Acts 26:5 Which knew me from the beginning, if they would testify, that after the most straitest sect of our religion I lived a Pharisee.
Acts 26:6 και νυν επ ελπιδι της προς τους πατερας επαγγελιας γενομενης υπο του θεου εστηκα κρινομενος
Acts 26:6 And now I stand and am judged for the hope of the promise made of God, unto our fathers:
Acts 26:7 εις ην το δωδεκαφυλον ημων εν εκτενεια νυκτα και ημεραν λατρευον ελπιζει καταντησαι περι ης ελπιδος εγκαλουμαι βασιλευ αγριππα υπο των ιουδαιων
Acts 26:7 Unto which promise our twelve tribes, instantly serving God day and night, hope to come. For which hope's sake, king Agrippa, I am accused of the Jews.
Acts 26:8 τι απιστον κρινεται παρ υμιν ει ο θεος νεκρους εγειρει
Acts 26:8 Why should it be thought a thing incredible with you, that God should raise the dead?
Acts 26:9 εγω μεν ουν εδοξα εμαυτω προς το ονομα ιησου του ναζωραιου δειν πολλα εναντια πραξαι
Acts 26:9 I verily thought with myself, that I ought to do many things contrary to the name of Jesus of Nazareth.
Acts 26:10 ο και εποιησα εν ιεροσολυμοις και πολλους των αγιων εγω φυλακαις κατεκλεισα την παρα των αρχιερεων εξουσιαν λαβων αναιρουμενων τε αυτων κατηνεγκα ψηφον
Acts 26:10 Which thing I also did in Jerusalem: and many of the saints did I shut up in prison, having received authority from the chief priests; and when they were put to death, I gave my voice against them.
Acts 26:11 και κατα πασας τας συναγωγας πολλακις τιμωρων αυτους ηναγκαζον βλασφημειν περισσως τε εμμαινομενος αυτοις εδιωκον εως και εις τας εξω πολεις
Acts 26:11 And I punished them oft in every synagogue, and compelled them to blaspheme; and being exceedingly mad against them, I persecuted them even unto strange cities.
Acts 26:12 εν οις και πορευομενος εις την δαμασκον μετ εξουσιας και επιτροπης της παρα των αρχιερεων
Acts 26:12 Whereupon as I went to Damascus with authority and commission from the chief priests,
Acts 26:13 ημερας μεσης κατα την οδον ειδον βασιλευ ουρανοθεν υπερ την λαμπροτητα του ηλιου περιλαμψαν με φως και τους συν εμοι πορευομενους
Acts 26:13 At midday, O king, I saw in the way a light from heaven, above the brightness of the sun, shining round about me and them which journeyed with me.
Acts 26:14 παντων δε καταπεσοντων ημων εις την γην ηκουσα φωνην λαλουσαν προς με και λεγουσαν τη εβραιδι διαλεκτω σαουλ σαουλ τι με διωκεις σκληρον σοι προς κεντρα λακτιζειν
Acts 26:14 And when we were all fallen to the earth, I heard a voice speaking unto me, and saying in the Hebrew tongue, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? it is hard for thee to kick against the pricks.
Acts 26:15 εγω δε ειπον τις ει κυριε ο δε ειπεν εγω ειμι ιησους ον συ διωκεις
Acts 26:15 And I said, Who art thou, Lord? And he said, I am Jesus whom thou persecutest.
Acts 26:16 αλλα αναστηθι και στηθι επι τους ποδας σου εις τουτο γαρ ωφθην σοι προχειρισασθαι σε υπηρετην και μαρτυρα ων τε ειδες ων τε οφθησομαι σοι
Acts 26:16 But rise, and stand upon thy feet: for I have appeared unto thee for this purpose, to make thee a minister and a witness both of these things which thou hast seen, and of those things in the which I will appear unto thee;
Acts 26:17 εξαιρουμενος σε εκ του λαου και των εθνων εις ους νυν σε αποστελλω
Acts 26:17 Delivering thee from the people, and from the Gentiles, unto whom now I send thee,
Acts 26:18 ανοιξαι οφθαλμους αυτων του επιστρεψαι απο σκοτους εις φως και της εξουσιας του σατανα επι τον θεον του λαβειν αυτους αφεσιν αμαρτιων και κληρον εν τοις ηγιασμενοις πιστει τη εις εμε
Acts 26:18 To open their eyes, and to turn them from darkness to light, and from the power of Satan unto God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins, and inheritance among them which are sanctified by faith that is in me.
Acts 26:19 οθεν βασιλευ αγριππα ουκ εγενομην απειθης τη ουρανιω οπτασια
Acts 26:19 Whereupon, O king Agrippa, I was not disobedient unto the heavenly vision:
Acts 26:20 αλλα τοις εν δαμασκω πρωτον και ιεροσολυμοις εις πασαν τε την χωραν της ιουδαιας και τοις εθνεσιν απαγγελλων μετανοειν και επιστρεφειν επι τον θεον αξια της μετανοιας εργα πρασσοντας
Acts 26:20 But shewed first unto them of Damascus, and at Jerusalem, and throughout all the coasts of Judaea, and then to the Gentiles, that they should repent and turn to God, and do works meet for repentance.
Acts 26:21 ενεκα τουτων με οι ιουδαιοι συλλαβομενοι εν τω ιερω επειρωντο διαχειρισασθαι
Acts 26:21 For these causes the Jews caught me in the temple, and went about to kill me.
Acts 26:22 επικουριας ουν τυχων της παρα του θεου αχρι της ημερας ταυτης εστηκα μαρτυρουμενος μικρω τε και μεγαλω ουδεν εκτος λεγων ων τε οι προφηται ελαλησαν μελλοντων γινεσθαι και μωσης
Acts 26:22 Having therefore obtained help of God, I continue unto this day, witnessing both to small and great, saying none other things than those which the prophets and Moses did say should come:
Acts 26:23 ει παθητος ο χριστος ει πρωτος εξ αναστασεως νεκρων φως μελλει καταγγελλειν τω λαω και τοις εθνεσιν
Acts 26:23 That Christ should suffer, and that he should be the first that should rise from the dead, and should shew light unto the people, and to the Gentiles.
Acts 26:24 ταυτα δε αυτου απολογουμενου ο φηστος μεγαλη τη φωνη εφη μαινη παυλε τα πολλα σε γραμματα εις μανιαν περιτρεπει
Acts 26:24 And as he thus spake for himself, Festus said with a loud voice, Paul, thou art beside thyself; much learning doth make thee mad.
Acts 26:25 ο δε ου μαινομαι φησιν κρατιστε φηστε αλλ αληθειας και σωφροσυνης ρηματα αποφθεγγομαι
Acts 26:25 But he said, I am not mad, most noble Festus; but speak forth the words of truth and soberness.
Acts 26:26 επισταται γαρ περι τουτων ο βασιλευς προς ον και παρρησιαζομενος λαλω λανθανειν γαρ αυτον τι τουτων ου πειθομαι ουδεν ου γαρ εστιν εν γωνια πεπραγμενον τουτο
Acts 26:26 For the king knoweth of these things, before whom also I speak freely: for I am persuaded that none of these things are hidden from him; for this thing was not done in a corner.
Acts 26:27 πιστευεις βασιλευ αγριππα τοις προφηταις οιδα οτι πιστευεις
Acts 26:27 King Agrippa, believest thou the prophets? I know that thou believest.
Acts 26:28 ο δε αγριππας προς τον παυλον εφη εν ολιγω με πειθεις χριστιανον γενεσθαι
Acts 26:28 Then Agrippa said unto Paul, Almost thou persuadest me to be a Christian.
Acts 26:29 ο δε παυλος ειπεν ευξαιμην αν τω θεω και εν ολιγω και εν πολλω ου μονον σε αλλα και παντας τους ακουοντας μου σημερον γενεσθαι τοιουτους οποιος καγω ειμι παρεκτος των δεσμων τουτων
Acts 26:29 And Paul said, I would to God, that not only thou, but also all that hear me this day, were both almost, and altogether such as I am, except these bonds.
Acts 26:30 και ταυτα ειποντος αυτου ανεστη ο βασιλευς και ο ηγεμων η τε βερνικη και οι συγκαθημενοι αυτοις
Acts 26:30 And when he had thus spoken, the king rose up, and the governor, and Bernice, and they that sat with them:
Acts 26:31 και αναχωρησαντες ελαλουν προς αλληλους λεγοντες οτι ουδεν θανατου αξιον η δεσμων πρασσει ο ανθρωπος ουτος
Acts 26:31 And when they were gone aside, they talked between themselves, saying, This man doeth nothing worthy of death or of bonds.
Acts 26:32 αγριππας δε τω φηστω εφη απολελυσθαι εδυνατο ο ανθρωπος ουτος ει μη επεκεκλητο καισαρα
Acts 26:32 Then said Agrippa unto Festus, This man might have been set at liberty, if he had not appealed unto Caesar.
Acts 27:1 ως δε εκριθη του αποπλειν ημας εις την ιταλιαν παρεδιδουν τον τε παυλον και τινας ετερους δεσμωτας εκατονταρχη ονοματι ιουλιω σπειρης σεβαστης
Acts 27:1 And when it was determined that we should sail into Italy, they delivered Paul and certain other prisoners unto one named Julius, a centurion of Augustus' band.
Acts 27:2 επιβαντες δε πλοιω αδραμυττηνω μελλοντες πλειν τους κατα την ασιαν τοπους ανηχθημεν οντος συν ημιν αρισταρχου μακεδονος θεσσαλονικεως
Acts 27:2 And entering into a ship of Adramyttium, we launched, meaning to sail by the coasts of Asia; one Aristarchus, a Macedonian of Thessalonica, being with us.
Acts 27:3 τη τε ετερα κατηχθημεν εις σιδωνα φιλανθρωπως τε ο ιουλιος τω παυλω χρησαμενος επετρεψεν προς φιλους πορευθεντα επιμελειας τυχειν
Acts 27:3 And the next day we touched at Sidon. And Julius courteously entreated Paul, and gave him liberty to go unto his friends to refresh himself.
Acts 27:4 κακειθεν αναχθεντες υπεπλευσαμεν την κυπρον δια το τους ανεμους ειναι εναντιους
Acts 27:4 And when we had launched from thence, we sailed under Cyprus, because the winds were contrary.
Acts 27:5 το τε πελαγος το κατα την κιλικιαν και παμφυλιαν διαπλευσαντες κατηλθομεν εις μυρα της λυκιας
Acts 27:5 And when we had sailed over the sea of Cilicia and Pamphylia, we came to Myra, a city of Lycia.
Acts 27:6 κακει ευρων ο εκατονταρχος πλοιον αλεξανδρινον πλεον εις την ιταλιαν ενεβιβασεν ημας εις αυτο
Acts 27:6 And there the centurion found a ship of Alexandria sailing into Italy; and he put us therein.
Acts 27:7 εν ικαναις δε ημεραις βραδυπλοουντες και μολις γενομενοι κατα την κνιδον μη προσεωντος ημας του ανεμου υπεπλευσαμεν την κρητην κατα σαλμωνην
Acts 27:7 And when we had sailed slowly many days, and scarce were come over against Cnidus, the wind not suffering us, we sailed under Crete, over against Salmone;
Acts 27:8 μολις τε παραλεγομενοι αυτην ηλθομεν εις τοπον τινα καλουμενον καλους λιμενας ω εγγυς ην πολις λασαια
Acts 27:8 And, hardly passing it, came unto a place which is called The fair havens; nigh whereunto was the city of Lasea.
Acts 27:9 ικανου δε χρονου διαγενομενου και οντος ηδη επισφαλους του πλοος δια το και την νηστειαν ηδη παρεληλυθεναι παρηνει ο παυλος
Acts 27:9 Now when much time was spent, and when sailing was now dangerous, because the fast was now already past, Paul admonished them,
Acts 27:10 λεγων αυτοις ανδρες θεωρω οτι μετα υβρεως και πολλης ζημιας ου μονον του φορτου και του πλοιου αλλα και των ψυχων ημων μελλειν εσεσθαι τον πλουν
Acts 27:10 And said unto them, Sirs, I perceive that this voyage will be with hurt and much damage, not only of the lading and ship, but also of our lives.
Acts 27:11 ο δε εκατονταρχος τω κυβερνητη και τω ναυκληρω επειθετο μαλλον η τοις υπο του παυλου λεγομενοις
Acts 27:11 Nevertheless the centurion believed the master and the owner of the ship, more than those things which were spoken by Paul.
Acts 27:12 ανευθετου δε του λιμενος υπαρχοντος προς παραχειμασιαν οι πλειους εθεντο βουλην αναχθηναι κακειθεν ειπως δυναιντο καταντησαντες εις φοινικα παραχειμασαι λιμενα της κρητης βλεποντα κατα λιβα και κατα χωρον
Acts 27:12 And because the haven was not commodious to winter in, the more part advised to depart thence also, if by any means they might attain to Phenice, and there to winter; which is an haven of Crete, and lieth toward the south west and north west.
Acts 27:13 υποπνευσαντος δε νοτου δοξαντες της προθεσεως κεκρατηκεναι αραντες ασσον παρελεγοντο την κρητην
Acts 27:13 And when the south wind blew softly, supposing that they had obtained their purpose, loosing thence, they sailed close by Crete.
Acts 27:14 μετ ου πολυ δε εβαλεν κατ αυτης ανεμος τυφωνικος ο καλουμενος ευροκλυδων
Acts 27:14 But not long after there arose against it a tempestuous wind, called Euroclydon.
Acts 27:15 συναρπασθεντος δε του πλοιου και μη δυναμενου αντοφθαλμειν τω ανεμω επιδοντες εφερομεθα
Acts 27:15 And when the ship was caught, and could not bear up into the wind, we let her drive.
Acts 27:16 νησιον δε τι υποδραμοντες καλουμενον κλαυδην μολις ισχυσαμεν περικρατεις γενεσθαι της σκαφης
Acts 27:16 And running under a certain island which is called Clauda, we had much work to come by the boat:
Acts 27:17 ην αραντες βοηθειαις εχρωντο υποζωννυντες το πλοιον φοβουμενοι τε μη εις την συρτιν εκπεσωσιν χαλασαντες το σκευος ουτως εφεροντο
Acts 27:17 Which when they had taken up, they used helps, undergirding the ship; and, fearing lest they should fall into the quicksands, strake sail, and so were driven.
Acts 27:18 σφοδρως δε χειμαζομενων ημων τη εξης εκβολην εποιουντο
Acts 27:18 And we being exceedingly tossed with a tempest, the next day they lightened the ship;
Acts 27:19 και τη τριτη αυτοχειρες την σκευην του πλοιου ερριψαμεν
Acts 27:19 And the third day we cast out with our own hands the tackling of the ship.
Acts 27:20 μητε δε ηλιου μητε αστρων επιφαινοντων επι πλειονας ημερας χειμωνος τε ουκ ολιγου επικειμενου λοιπον περιηρειτο πασα ελπις του σωζεσθαι ημας
Acts 27:20 And when neither sun nor stars in many days appeared, and no small tempest lay on us, all hope that we should be saved was then taken away.
Acts 27:21 πολλης δε ασιτιας υπαρχουσης τοτε σταθεις ο παυλος εν μεσω αυτων ειπεν εδει μεν ω ανδρες πειθαρχησαντας μοι μη αναγεσθαι απο της κρητης κερδησαι τε την υβριν ταυτην και την ζημιαν
Acts 27:21 But after long abstinence Paul stood forth in the midst of them, and said, Sirs, ye should have hearkened unto me, and not have loosed from Crete, and to have gained this harm and loss.
Acts 27:22 και τανυν παραινω υμας ευθυμειν αποβολη γαρ ψυχης ουδεμια εσται εξ υμων πλην του πλοιου
Acts 27:22 And now I exhort you to be of good cheer: for there shall be no loss of any man's life among you, but of the ship.
Acts 27:23 παρεστη γαρ μοι τη νυκτι ταυτη αγγελος του θεου ου ειμι ω και λατρευω
Acts 27:23 For there stood by me this night the angel of God, whose I am, and whom I serve,
Acts 27:24 λεγων μη φοβου παυλε καισαρι σε δει παραστηναι και ιδου κεχαρισται σοι ο θεος παντας τους πλεοντας μετα σου
Acts 27:24 Saying, Fear not, Paul; thou must be brought before Caesar: and, lo, God hath given thee all them that sail with thee.
Acts 27:25 διο ευθυμειτε ανδρες πιστευω γαρ τω θεω οτι ουτως εσται καθ ον τροπον λελαληται μοι
Acts 27:25 Wherefore, sirs, be of good cheer: for I believe God, that it shall be even as it was told me.
Acts 27:26 εις νησον δε τινα δει ημας εκπεσειν
Acts 27:26 Howbeit we must be cast upon a certain island.
Acts 27:27 ως δε τεσσαρεσκαιδεκατη νυξ εγενετο διαφερομενων ημων εν τω αδρια κατα μεσον της νυκτος υπενοουν οι ναυται προσαγειν τινα αυτοις χωραν
Acts 27:27 But when the fourteenth night was come, as we were driven up and down in Adria, about midnight the shipmen deemed that they drew near to some country;
Acts 27:28 και βολισαντες ευρον οργυιας εικοσι βραχυ δε διαστησαντες και παλιν βολισαντες ευρον οργυιας δεκαπεντε
Acts 27:28 And sounded, and found it twenty fathoms: and when they had gone a little further, they sounded again, and found it fifteen fathoms.
Acts 27:29 φοβουμενοι τε μηπως εις τραχεις τοπους εκπεσωσιν εκ πρυμνης ριψαντες αγκυρας τεσσαρας ηυχοντο ημεραν γενεσθαι
Acts 27:29 Then fearing lest we should have fallen upon rocks, they cast four anchors out of the stern, and wished for the day.
Acts 27:30 των δε ναυτων ζητουντων φυγειν εκ του πλοιου και χαλασαντων την σκαφην εις την θαλασσαν προφασει ως εκ πρωρας μελλοντων αγκυρας εκτεινειν
Acts 27:30 And as the shipmen were about to flee out of the ship, when they had let down the boat into the sea, under colour as though they would have cast anchors out of the foreship,
Acts 27:31 ειπεν ο παυλος τω εκατονταρχη και τοις στρατιωταις εαν μη ουτοι μεινωσιν εν τω πλοιω υμεις σωθηναι ου δυνασθε
Acts 27:31 Paul said to the centurion and to the soldiers, Except these abide in the ship, ye cannot be saved.
Acts 27:32 τοτε οι στρατιωται απεκοψαν τα σχοινια της σκαφης και ειασαν αυτην εκπεσειν
Acts 27:32 Then the soldiers cut off the ropes of the boat, and let her fall off.
Acts 27:33 αχρι δε ου εμελλεν ημερα γινεσθαι παρεκαλει ο παυλος απαντας μεταλαβειν τροφης λεγων τεσσαρεσκαιδεκατην σημερον ημεραν προσδοκωντες ασιτοι διατελειτε μηδεν προσλαβομενοι
Acts 27:33 And while the day was coming on, Paul besought them all to take meat, saying, This day is the fourteenth day that ye have tarried and continued fasting, having taken nothing.
Acts 27:34 διο παρακαλω υμας προσλαβειν τροφης τουτο γαρ προς της υμετερας σωτηριας υπαρχει ουδενος γαρ υμων θριξ εκ της κεφαλης πεσειται
Acts 27:34 Wherefore I pray you to take some meat: for this is for your health: for there shall not an hair fall from the head of any of you.
Acts 27:35 ειπων δε ταυτα και λαβων αρτον ευχαριστησεν τω θεω ενωπιον παντων και κλασας ηρξατο εσθιειν
Acts 27:35 And when he had thus spoken, he took bread, and gave thanks to God in presence of them all: and when he had broken it, he began to eat.
Acts 27:36 ευθυμοι δε γενομενοι παντες και αυτοι προσελαβοντο τροφης
Acts 27:36 Then were they all of good cheer, and they also took some meat.
Acts 27:37 ημεν δε εν τω πλοιω αι πασαι ψυχαι διακοσιαι εβδομηκονταεξ
Acts 27:37 And we were in all in the ship two hundred threescore and sixteen souls.
Acts 27:38 κορεσθεντες δε τροφης εκουφιζον το πλοιον εκβαλλομενοι τον σιτον εις την θαλασσαν
Acts 27:38 And when they had eaten enough, they lightened the ship, and cast out the wheat into the sea.
Acts 27:39 οτε δε ημερα εγενετο την γην ουκ επεγινωσκον κολπον δε τινα κατενοουν εχοντα αιγιαλον εις ον εβουλευσαντο ει δυναιντο εξωσαι το πλοιον
Acts 27:39 And when it was day, they knew not the land: but they discovered a certain creek with a shore, into the which they were minded, if it were possible, to thrust in the ship.
Acts 27:40 και τας αγκυρας περιελοντες ειων εις την θαλασσαν αμα ανεντες τας ζευκτηριας των πηδαλιων και επαραντες τον αρτεμονα τη πνεουση κατειχον εις τον αιγιαλον
Acts 27:40 And when they had taken up the anchors, they committed themselves unto the sea, and loosed the rudder bands, and hoised up the mainsail to the wind, and made toward shore.
Acts 27:41 περιπεσοντες δε εις τοπον διθαλασσον επωκειλαν την ναυν και η μεν πρωρα ερεισασα εμεινεν ασαλευτος η δε πρυμνα ελυετο υπο της βιας των κυματων
Acts 27:41 And falling into a place where two seas met, they ran the ship aground; and the forepart stuck fast, and remained unmoveable, but the hinder part was broken with the violence of the waves.
Acts 27:42 των δε στρατιωτων βουλη εγενετο ινα τους δεσμωτας αποκτεινωσιν μητις εκκολυμβησας διαφυγοι
Acts 27:42 And the soldiers' counsel was to kill the prisoners, lest any of them should swim out, and escape.
Acts 27:43 ο δε εκατονταρχος βουλομενος διασωσαι τον παυλον εκωλυσεν αυτους του βουληματος εκελευσεν τε τους δυναμενους κολυμβαν απορριψαντας πρωτους επι την γην εξιεναι
Acts 27:43 But the centurion, willing to save Paul, kept them from their purpose; and commanded that they which could swim should cast themselves first into the sea, and get to land:
Acts 27:44 και τους λοιπους ους μεν επι σανισιν ους δε επι τινων των απο του πλοιου και ουτως εγενετο παντας διασωθηναι επι την γην
Acts 27:44 And the rest, some on boards, and some on broken pieces of the ship. And so it came to pass, that they escaped all safe to land.
Acts 28:1 και διασωθεντες τοτε επεγνωσαν οτι μελιτη η νησος καλειται
Acts 28:1 And when they were escaped, then they knew that the island was called Melita.
Acts 28:2 οι δε βαρβαροι παρειχον ου την τυχουσαν φιλανθρωπιαν ημιν αναψαντες γαρ πυραν προσελαβοντο παντας ημας δια τον υετον τον εφεστωτα και δια το ψυχος
Acts 28:2 And the barbarous people shewed us no little kindness: for they kindled a fire, and received us every one, because of the present rain, and because of the cold.
Acts 28:3 συστρεψαντος δε του παυλου φρυγανων πληθος και επιθεντος επι την πυραν εχιδνα εκ της θερμης εξελθουσα καθηψεν της χειρος αυτου
Acts 28:3 And when Paul had gathered a bundle of sticks, and laid them on the fire, there came a viper out of the heat, and fastened on his hand.
Acts 28:4 ως δε ειδον οι βαρβαροι κρεμαμενον το θηριον εκ της χειρος αυτου ελεγον προς αλληλους παντως φονευς εστιν ο ανθρωπος ουτος ον διασωθεντα εκ της θαλασσης η δικη ζην ουκ ειασεν
Acts 28:4 And when the barbarians saw the venomous beast hang on his hand, they said among themselves, No doubt this man is a murderer, whom, though he hath escaped the sea, yet vengeance suffereth not to live.
Acts 28:5 ο μεν ουν αποτιναξας το θηριον εις το πυρ επαθεν ουδεν κακον
Acts 28:5 And he shook off the beast into the fire, and felt no harm.
Acts 28:6 οι δε προσεδοκων αυτον μελλειν πιμπρασθαι η καταπιπτειν αφνω νεκρον επι πολυ δε αυτων προσδοκωντων και θεωρουντων μηδεν ατοπον εις αυτον γινομενον μεταβαλλομενοι ελεγον θεον αυτον ειναι
Acts 28:6 Howbeit they looked when he should have swollen, or fallen down dead suddenly: but after they had looked a great while, and saw no harm come to him, they changed their minds, and said that he was a god.
Acts 28:7 εν δε τοις περι τον τοπον εκεινον υπηρχεν χωρια τω πρωτω της νησου ονοματι ποπλιω ος αναδεξαμενος ημας τρεις ημερας φιλοφρονως εξενισεν
Acts 28:7 In the same quarters were possessions of the chief man of the island, whose name was Publius; who received us, and lodged us three days courteously.
Acts 28:8 εγενετο δε τον πατερα του ποπλιου πυρετοις και δυσεντερια συνεχομενον κατακεισθαι προς ον ο παυλος εισελθων και προσευξαμενος επιθεις τας χειρας αυτω ιασατο αυτον
Acts 28:8 And it came to pass, that the father of Publius lay sick of a fever and of a bloody flux: to whom Paul entered in, and prayed, and laid his hands on him, and healed him.
Acts 28:9 τουτου ουν γενομενου και οι λοιποι οι εχοντες ασθενειας εν τη νησω προσηρχοντο και εθεραπευοντο
Acts 28:9 So when this was done, others also, which had diseases in the island, came, and were healed:
Acts 28:10 οι και πολλαις τιμαις ετιμησαν ημας και αναγομενοις επεθεντο τα προς την χρειαν
Acts 28:10 Who also honoured us with many honours; and when we departed, they laded us with such things as were necessary.
Acts 28:11 μετα δε τρεις μηνας ανηχθημεν εν πλοιω παρακεχειμακοτι εν τη νησω αλεξανδρινω παρασημω διοσκουροις
Acts 28:11 And after three months we departed in a ship of Alexandria, which had wintered in the isle, whose sign was Castor and Pollux.
Acts 28:12 και καταχθεντες εις συρακουσας επεμειναμεν ημερας τρεις
Acts 28:12 And landing at Syracuse, we tarried there three days.
Acts 28:13 οθεν περιελθοντες κατηντησαμεν εις ρηγιον και μετα μιαν ημεραν επιγενομενου νοτου δευτεραιοι ηλθομεν εις ποτιολους
Acts 28:13 And from thence we fetched a compass, and came to Rhegium: and after one day the south wind blew, and we came the next day to Puteoli:
Acts 28:14 ου ευροντες αδελφους παρεκληθημεν επ αυτοις επιμειναι ημερας επτα και ουτως εις την ρωμην ηλθομεν
Acts 28:14 Where we found brethren, and were desired to tarry with them seven days: and so we went toward Rome.
Acts 28:15 κακειθεν οι αδελφοι ακουσαντες τα περι ημων εξηλθον εις απαντησιν ημιν αχρις αππιου φορου και τριων ταβερνων ους ιδων ο παυλος ευχαριστησας τω θεω ελαβεν θαρσος
Acts 28:15 And from thence, when the brethren heard of us, they came to meet us as far as Appii forum, and The three taverns: whom when Paul saw, he thanked God, and took courage.
Acts 28:16 οτε δε ηλθομεν εις ρωμην ο εκατονταρχος παρεδωκεν τους δεσμιους τω στρατοπεδαρχη τω δε παυλω επετραπη μενειν καθ εαυτον συν τω φυλασσοντι αυτον στρατιωτη
Acts 28:16 And when we came to Rome, the centurion delivered the prisoners to the captain of the guard: but Paul was suffered to dwell by himself with a soldier that kept him.
Acts 28:17 εγενετο δε μετα ημερας τρεις συγκαλεσασθαι τον παυλον τους οντας των ιουδαιων πρωτους συνελθοντων δε αυτων ελεγεν προς αυτους ανδρες αδελφοι εγω ουδεν εναντιον ποιησας τω λαω η τοις εθεσιν τοις πατρωοις δεσμιος εξ ιεροσολυμων παρεδοθην εις τας χειρας των ρωμαιων
Acts 28:17 And it came to pass, that after three days Paul called the chief of the Jews together: and when they were come together, he said unto them, Men and brethren, though I have committed nothing against the people, or customs of our fathers, yet was I delivered prisoner from Jerusalem into the hands of the Romans.
Acts 28:18 οιτινες ανακριναντες με εβουλοντο απολυσαι δια το μηδεμιαν αιτιαν θανατου υπαρχειν εν εμοι
Acts 28:18 Who, when they had examined me, would have let me go, because there was no cause of death in me.
Acts 28:19 αντιλεγοντων δε των ιουδαιων ηναγκασθην επικαλεσασθαι καισαρα ουχ ως του εθνους μου εχων τι κατηγορησαι
Acts 28:19 But when the Jews spake against it, I was constrained to appeal unto Caesar; not that I had ought to accuse my nation of.
Acts 28:20 δια ταυτην ουν την αιτιαν παρεκαλεσα υμας ιδειν και προσλαλησαι ενεκεν γαρ της ελπιδος του ισραηλ την αλυσιν ταυτην περικειμαι
Acts 28:20 For this cause therefore have I called for you, to see you, and to speak with you: because that for the hope of Israel I am bound with this chain.
Acts 28:21 οι δε προς αυτον ειπον ημεις ουτε γραμματα περι σου εδεξαμεθα απο της ιουδαιας ουτε παραγενομενος τις των αδελφων απηγγειλεν η ελαλησεν τι περι σου πονηρον
Acts 28:21 And they said unto him, We neither received letters out of Judaea concerning thee, neither any of the brethren that came shewed or spake any harm of thee.
Acts 28:22 αξιουμεν δε παρα σου ακουσαι α φρονεις περι μεν γαρ της αιρεσεως ταυτης γνωστον εστιν ημιν οτι πανταχου αντιλεγεται
Acts 28:22 But we desire to hear of thee what thou thinkest: for as concerning this sect, we know that every where it is spoken against.
Acts 28:23 ταξαμενοι δε αυτω ημεραν ηκον προς αυτον εις την ξενιαν πλειονες οις εξετιθετο διαμαρτυρομενος την βασιλειαν του θεου πειθων τε αυτους τα περι του ιησου απο τε του νομου μωσεως και των προφητων απο πρωι εως εσπερας
Acts 28:23 And when they had appointed him a day, there came many to him into his lodging; to whom he expounded and testified the kingdom of God, persuading them concerning Jesus, both out of the law of Moses, and out of the prophets, from morning till evening.
Acts 28:24 και οι μεν επειθοντο τοις λεγομενοις οι δε ηπιστουν
Acts 28:24 And some believed the things which were spoken, and some believed not.
Acts 28:25 ασυμφωνοι δε οντες προς αλληλους απελυοντο ειποντος του παυλου ρημα εν οτι καλως το πνευμα το αγιον ελαλησεν δια ησαιου του προφητου προς τους πατερας ημων
Acts 28:25 And when they agreed not among themselves, they departed, after that Paul had spoken one word, Well spake the Holy Ghost by Esaias the prophet unto our fathers,
Acts 28:26 λεγον πορευθητι προς τον λαον τουτον και ειπε ακοη ακουσετε και ου μη συνητε και βλεποντες βλεψετε και ου μη ιδητε
Acts 28:26 Saying, Go unto this people, and say, Hearing ye shall hear, and shall not understand; and seeing ye shall see, and not perceive:
Acts 28:27 επαχυνθη γαρ η καρδια του λαου τουτου και τοις ωσιν βαρεως ηκουσαν και τους οφθαλμους αυτων εκαμμυσαν μηποτε ιδωσιν τοις οφθαλμοις και τοις ωσιν ακουσωσιν και τη καρδια συνωσιν και επιστρεψωσιν και ιασωμαι αυτους
Acts 28:27 For the heart of this people is waxed gross, and their ears are dull of hearing, and their eyes have they closed; lest they should see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their heart, and should be converted, and I should heal them.
Acts 28:28 γνωστον ουν εστω υμιν οτι τοις εθνεσιν απεσταλη το σωτηριον του θεου αυτοι και ακουσονται
Acts 28:28 Be it known therefore unto you, that the salvation of God is sent unto the Gentiles, and that they will hear it.
Acts 28:29 και ταυτα αυτου ειποντος απηλθον οι ιουδαιοι πολλην εχοντες εν εαυτοις συζητησιν
Acts 28:29 And when he had said these words, the Jews departed, and had great reasoning among themselves.
Acts 28:30 εμεινεν δε ο παυλος διετιαν ολην εν ιδιω μισθωματι και απεδεχετο παντας τους εισπορευομενους προς αυτον
Acts 28:30 And Paul dwelt two whole years in his own hired house, and received all that came in unto him,
Acts 28:31 κηρυσσων την βασιλειαν του θεου και διδασκων τα περι του κυριου ιησου χριστου μετα πασης παρρησιας ακωλυτως
Acts 28:31 Preaching the kingdom of God, and teaching those things which concern the Lord Jesus Christ, with all confidence, no man forbidding him.
Romans 1:1 παυλος δουλος ιησου χριστου κλητος αποστολος αφωρισμενος εις ευαγγελιον θεου
Romans 1:1 Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ, called to be an apostle, separated unto the gospel of God,
Romans 1:2 ο προεπηγγειλατο δια των προφητων αυτου εν γραφαις αγιαις
Romans 1:2 (Which he had promised afore by his prophets in the holy scriptures,)
Romans 1:3 περι του υιου αυτου του γενομενου εκ σπερματος δαβιδ κατα σαρκα
Romans 1:3 Concerning his Son Jesus Christ our Lord, which was made of the seed of David according to the flesh;
Romans 1:4 του ορισθεντος υιου θεου εν δυναμει κατα πνευμα αγιωσυνης εξ αναστασεως νεκρων ιησου χριστου του κυριου ημων
Romans 1:4 And declared to be the Son of God with power, according to the spirit of holiness, by the resurrection from the dead:
Romans 1:5 δι ου ελαβομεν χαριν και αποστολην εις υπακοην πιστεως εν πασιν τοις εθνεσιν υπερ του ονοματος αυτου
Romans 1:5 By whom we have received grace and apostleship, for obedience to the faith among all nations, for his name:
Romans 1:6 εν οις εστε και υμεις κλητοι ιησου χριστου
Romans 1:6 Among whom are ye also the called of Jesus Christ:
Romans 1:7 πασιν τοις ουσιν εν ρωμη αγαπητοις θεου κλητοις αγιοις χαρις υμιν και ειρηνη απο θεου πατρος ημων και κυριου ιησου χριστου
Romans 1:7 To all that be in Rome, beloved of God, called to be saints: Grace to you and peace from God our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Romans 1:8 πρωτον μεν ευχαριστω τω θεω μου δια ιησου χριστου υπερ παντων υμων οτι η πιστις υμων καταγγελλεται εν ολω τω κοσμω
Romans 1:8 First, I thank my God through Jesus Christ for you all, that your faith is spoken of throughout the whole world.
Romans 1:9 μαρτυς γαρ μου εστιν ο θεος ω λατρευω εν τω πνευματι μου εν τω ευαγγελιω του υιου αυτου ως αδιαλειπτως μνειαν υμων ποιουμαι
Romans 1:9 For God is my witness, whom I serve with my spirit in the gospel of his Son, that without ceasing I make mention of you always in my prayers;
Romans 1:10 παντοτε επι των προσευχων μου δεομενος ειπως ηδη ποτε ευοδωθησομαι εν τω θεληματι του θεου ελθειν προς υμας
Romans 1:10 Making request, if by any means now at length I might have a prosperous journey by the will of God to come unto you.
Romans 1:11 επιποθω γαρ ιδειν υμας ινα τι μεταδω χαρισμα υμιν πνευματικον εις το στηριχθηναι υμας
Romans 1:11 For I long to see you, that I may impart unto you some spiritual gift, to the end ye may be established;
Romans 1:12 τουτο δε εστιν συμπαρακληθηναι εν υμιν δια της εν αλληλοις πιστεως υμων τε και εμου
Romans 1:12 That is, that I may be comforted together with you by the mutual faith both of you and me.
Romans 1:13 ου θελω δε υμας αγνοειν αδελφοι οτι πολλακις προεθεμην ελθειν προς υμας και εκωλυθην αχρι του δευρο ινα καρπον τινα σχω και εν υμιν καθως και εν τοις λοιποις εθνεσιν
Romans 1:13 Now I would not have you ignorant, brethren, that oftentimes I purposed to come unto you, (but was let hitherto,) that I might have some fruit among you also, even as among other Gentiles.
Romans 1:14 ελλησιν τε και βαρβαροις σοφοις τε και ανοητοις οφειλετης ειμι
Romans 1:14 I am debtor both to the Greeks, and to the Barbarians; both to the wise, and to the unwise.
Romans 1:15 ουτως το κατ εμε προθυμον και υμιν τοις εν ρωμη ευαγγελισασθαι
Romans 1:15 So, as much as in me is, I am ready to preach the gospel to you that are at Rome also.
Romans 1:16 ου γαρ επαισχυνομαι το ευαγγελιον του χριστου δυναμις γαρ θεου εστιν εις σωτηριαν παντι τω πιστευοντι ιουδαιω τε πρωτον και ελληνι
Romans 1:16 For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ: for it is the power of God unto salvation to every one that believeth; to the Jew first, and also to the Greek.
Romans 1:17 δικαιοσυνη γαρ θεου εν αυτω αποκαλυπτεται εκ πιστεως εις πιστιν καθως γεγραπται ο δε δικαιος εκ πιστεως ζησεται
Romans 1:17 For therein is the righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith: as it is written, The just shall live by faith.
Romans 1:18 αποκαλυπτεται γαρ οργη θεου απ ουρανου επι πασαν ασεβειαν και αδικιαν ανθρωπων των την αληθειαν εν αδικια κατεχοντων
Romans 1:18 For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, who hold the truth in unrighteousness;
Romans 1:19 διοτι το γνωστον του θεου φανερον εστιν εν αυτοις ο γαρ θεος αυτοις εφανερωσεν
Romans 1:19 Because that which may be known of God is manifest in them; for God hath shewed it unto them.
Romans 1:20 τα γαρ αορατα αυτου απο κτισεως κοσμου τοις ποιημασιν νοουμενα καθοραται η τε αιδιος αυτου δυναμις και θειοτης εις το ειναι αυτους αναπολογητους
Romans 1:20 For the invisible things of him from the creation of the world are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead; so that they are without excuse:
Romans 1:21 διοτι γνοντες τον θεον ουχ ως θεον εδοξασαν η ευχαριστησαν αλλ εματαιωθησαν εν τοις διαλογισμοις αυτων και εσκοτισθη η ασυνετος αυτων καρδια
Romans 1:21 Because that, when they knew God, they glorified him not as God, neither were thankful; but became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish heart was darkened.
Romans 1:22 φασκοντες ειναι σοφοι εμωρανθησαν
Romans 1:22 Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools,
Romans 1:23 και ηλλαξαν την δοξαν του αφθαρτου θεου εν ομοιωματι εικονος φθαρτου ανθρωπου και πετεινων και τετραποδων και ερπετων
Romans 1:23 And changed the glory of the uncorruptible God into an image made like to corruptible man, and to birds, and fourfooted beasts, and creeping things.
Romans 1:24 διο και παρεδωκεν αυτους ο θεος εν ταις επιθυμιαις των καρδιων αυτων εις ακαθαρσιαν του ατιμαζεσθαι τα σωματα αυτων εν εαυτοις
Romans 1:24 Wherefore God also gave them up to uncleanness through the lusts of their own hearts, to dishonour their own bodies between themselves:
Romans 1:25 οιτινες μετηλλαξαν την αληθειαν του θεου εν τω ψευδει και εσεβασθησαν και ελατρευσαν τη κτισει παρα τον κτισαντα ος εστιν ευλογητος εις τους αιωνας αμην
Romans 1:25 Who changed the truth of God into a lie, and worshipped and served the creature more than the Creator, who is blessed for ever. Amen.
Romans 1:26 δια τουτο παρεδωκεν αυτους ο θεος εις παθη ατιμιας αι τε γαρ θηλειαι αυτων μετηλλαξαν την φυσικην χρησιν εις την παρα φυσιν
Romans 1:26 For this cause God gave them up unto vile affections: for even their women did change the natural use into that which is against nature:
Romans 1:27 ομοιως τε και οι αρρενες αφεντες την φυσικην χρησιν της θηλειας εξεκαυθησαν εν τη ορεξει αυτων εις αλληλους αρσενες εν αρσεσιν την ασχημοσυνην κατεργαζομενοι και την αντιμισθιαν ην εδει της πλανης αυτων εν εαυτοις απολαμβανοντες
Romans 1:27 And likewise also the men, leaving the natural use of the woman, burned in their lust one toward another; men with men working that which is unseemly, and receiving in themselves that recompence of their error which was meet.
Romans 1:28 και καθως ουκ εδοκιμασαν τον θεον εχειν εν επιγνωσει παρεδωκεν αυτους ο θεος εις αδοκιμον νουν ποιειν τα μη καθηκοντα
Romans 1:28 And even as they did not like to retain God in their knowledge, God gave them over to a reprobate mind, to do those things which are not convenient;
Romans 1:29 πεπληρωμενους παση αδικια πορνεια πονηρια πλεονεξια κακια μεστους φθονου φονου εριδος δολου κακοηθειας ψιθυριστας
Romans 1:29 Being filled with all unrighteousness, fornication, wickedness, covetousness, maliciousness; full of envy, murder, debate, deceit, malignity; whisperers,
Romans 1:30 καταλαλους θεοστυγεις υβριστας υπερηφανους αλαζονας εφευρετας κακων γονευσιν απειθεις
Romans 1:30 Backbiters, haters of God, despiteful, proud, boasters, inventors of evil things, disobedient to parents,
Romans 1:31 ασυνετους ασυνθετους αστοργους ασπονδους ανελεημονας
Romans 1:31 Without understanding, covenantbreakers, without natural affection, implacable, unmerciful:
Romans 1:32 οιτινες το δικαιωμα του θεου επιγνοντες οτι οι τα τοιαυτα πρασσοντες αξιοι θανατου εισιν ου μονον αυτα ποιουσιν αλλα και συνευδοκουσιν τοις πρασσουσιν
Romans 1:32 Who knowing the judgment of God, that they which commit such things are worthy of death, not only do the same, but have pleasure in them that do them.
Romans 2:1 διο αναπολογητος ει ω ανθρωπε πας ο κρινων εν ω γαρ κρινεις τον ετερον σεαυτον κατακρινεις τα γαρ αυτα πρασσεις ο κρινων
Romans 2:1 Therefore thou art inexcusable, O man, whosoever thou art that judgest: for wherein thou judgest another, thou condemnest thyself; for thou that judgest doest the same things.
Romans 2:2 οιδαμεν δε οτι το κριμα του θεου εστιν κατα αληθειαν επι τους τα τοιαυτα πρασσοντας
Romans 2:2 But we are sure that the judgment of God is according to truth against them which commit such things.
Romans 2:3 λογιζη δε τουτο ω ανθρωπε ο κρινων τους τα τοιαυτα πρασσοντας και ποιων αυτα οτι συ εκφευξη το κριμα του θεου
Romans 2:3 And thinkest thou this, O man, that judgest them which do such things, and doest the same, that thou shalt escape the judgment of God?
Romans 2:4 η του πλουτου της χρηστοτητος αυτου και της ανοχης και της μακροθυμιας καταφρονεις αγνοων οτι το χρηστον του θεου εις μετανοιαν σε αγει
Romans 2:4 Or despisest thou the riches of his goodness and forbearance and longsuffering; not knowing that the goodness of God leadeth thee to repentance?
Romans 2:5 κατα δε την σκληροτητα σου και αμετανοητον καρδιαν θησαυριζεις σεαυτω οργην εν ημερα οργης και αποκαλυψεως δικαιοκρισιας του θεου
Romans 2:5 But after thy hardness and impenitent heart treasurest up unto thyself wrath against the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God;
Romans 2:6 ος αποδωσει εκαστω κατα τα εργα αυτου
Romans 2:6 Who will render to every man according to his deeds:
Romans 2:7 τοις μεν καθ υπομονην εργου αγαθου δοξαν και τιμην και αφθαρσιαν ζητουσιν ζωην αιωνιον
Romans 2:7 To them who by patient continuance in well doing seek for glory and honour and immortality, eternal life:
Romans 2:8 τοις δε εξ εριθειας και απειθουσιν μεν τη αληθεια πειθομενοις δε τη αδικια θυμος και οργη
Romans 2:8 But unto them that are contentious, and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, indignation and wrath,
Romans 2:9 θλιψις και στενοχωρια επι πασαν ψυχην ανθρωπου του κατεργαζομενου το κακον ιουδαιου τε πρωτον και ελληνος
Romans 2:9 Tribulation and anguish, upon every soul of man that doeth evil, of the Jew first, and also of the Gentile;
Romans 2:10 δοξα δε και τιμη και ειρηνη παντι τω εργαζομενω το αγαθον ιουδαιω τε πρωτον και ελληνι
Romans 2:10 But glory, honour, and peace, to every man that worketh good, to the Jew first, and also to the Gentile:
Romans 2:11 ου γαρ εστιν προσωποληψια παρα τω θεω
Romans 2:11 For there is no respect of persons with God.
Romans 2:12 οσοι γαρ ανομως ημαρτον ανομως και απολουνται και οσοι εν νομω ημαρτον δια νομου κριθησονται
Romans 2:12 For as many as have sinned without law shall also perish without law: and as many as have sinned in the law shall be judged by the law;
Romans 2:13 ου γαρ οι ακροαται του νομου δικαιοι παρα τω θεω αλλ οι ποιηται του νομου δικαιωθησονται
Romans 2:13 (For not the hearers of the law are just before God, but the doers of the law shall be justified.
Romans 2:14 οταν γαρ εθνη τα μη νομον εχοντα φυσει τα του νομου ποιη ουτοι νομον μη εχοντες εαυτοις εισιν νομος
Romans 2:14 For when the Gentiles, which have not the law, do by nature the things contained in the law, these, having not the law, are a law unto themselves:
Romans 2:15 οιτινες ενδεικνυνται το εργον του νομου γραπτον εν ταις καρδιαις αυτων συμμαρτυρουσης αυτων της συνειδησεως και μεταξυ αλληλων των λογισμων κατηγορουντων η και απολογουμενων
Romans 2:15 Which shew the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience also bearing witness, and their thoughts the mean while accusing or else excusing one another;)
Romans 2:16 εν ημερα οτε κρινει ο θεος τα κρυπτα των ανθρωπων κατα το ευαγγελιον μου δια ιησου χριστου
Romans 2:16 In the day when God shall judge the secrets of men by Jesus Christ according to my gospel.
Romans 2:17 ιδε συ ιουδαιος επονομαζη και επαναπαυη τω νομω και καυχασαι εν θεω
Romans 2:17 Behold, thou art called a Jew, and restest in the law, and makest thy boast of God,
Romans 2:18 και γινωσκεις το θελημα και δοκιμαζεις τα διαφεροντα κατηχουμενος εκ του νομου
Romans 2:18 And knowest his will, and approvest the things that are more excellent, being instructed out of the law;
Romans 2:19 πεποιθας τε σεαυτον οδηγον ειναι τυφλων φως των εν σκοτει
Romans 2:19 And art confident that thou thyself art a guide of the blind, a light of them which are in darkness,
Romans 2:20 παιδευτην αφρονων διδασκαλον νηπιων εχοντα την μορφωσιν της γνωσεως και της αληθειας εν τω νομω
Romans 2:20 An instructor of the foolish, a teacher of babes, which hast the form of knowledge and of the truth in the law.
Romans 2:21 ο ουν διδασκων ετερον σεαυτον ου διδασκεις ο κηρυσσων μη κλεπτειν κλεπτεις
Romans 2:21 Thou therefore which teachest another, teachest thou not thyself? thou that preachest a man should not steal, dost thou steal?
Romans 2:22 ο λεγων μη μοιχευειν μοιχευεις ο βδελυσσομενος τα ειδωλα ιεροσυλεις
Romans 2:22 Thou that sayest a man should not commit adultery, dost thou commit adultery? thou that abhorrest idols, dost thou commit sacrilege?
Romans 2:23 ος εν νομω καυχασαι δια της παραβασεως του νομου τον θεον ατιμαζεις
Romans 2:23 Thou that makest thy boast of the law, through breaking the law dishonourest thou God?
Romans 2:24 το γαρ ονομα του θεου δι υμας βλασφημειται εν τοις εθνεσιν καθως γεγραπται
Romans 2:24 For the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles through you, as it is written.
Romans 2:25 περιτομη μεν γαρ ωφελει εαν νομον πρασσης εαν δε παραβατης νομου ης η περιτομη σου ακροβυστια γεγονεν
Romans 2:25 For circumcision verily profiteth, if thou keep the law: but if thou be a breaker of the law, thy circumcision is made uncircumcision.
Romans 2:26 εαν ουν η ακροβυστια τα δικαιωματα του νομου φυλασση ουχι η ακροβυστια αυτου εις περιτομην λογισθησεται
Romans 2:26 Therefore if the uncircumcision keep the righteousness of the law, shall not his uncircumcision be counted for circumcision?
Romans 2:27 και κρινει η εκ φυσεως ακροβυστια τον νομον τελουσα σε τον δια γραμματος και περιτομης παραβατην νομου
Romans 2:27 And shall not uncircumcision which is by nature, if it fulfil the law, judge thee, who by the letter and circumcision dost transgress the law?
Romans 2:28 ου γαρ ο εν τω φανερω ιουδαιος εστιν ουδε η εν τω φανερω εν σαρκι περιτομη
Romans 2:28 For he is not a Jew, which is one outwardly; neither is that circumcision, which is outward in the flesh:
Romans 2:29 αλλ ο εν τω κρυπτω ιουδαιος και περιτομη καρδιας εν πνευματι ου γραμματι ου ο επαινος ουκ εξ ανθρωπων αλλ εκ του θεου
Romans 2:29 But he is a Jew, which is one inwardly; and circumcision is that of the heart, in the spirit, and not in the letter; whose praise is not of men, but of God.
Romans 3:1 τι ουν το περισσον του ιουδαιου η τις η ωφελεια της περιτομης
Romans 3:1 What advantage then hath the Jew? or what profit is there of circumcision?
Romans 3:2 πολυ κατα παντα τροπον πρωτον μεν γαρ οτι επιστευθησαν τα λογια του θεου
Romans 3:2 Much every way: chiefly, because that unto them were committed the oracles of God.
Romans 3:3 τι γαρ ει ηπιστησαν τινες μη η απιστια αυτων την πιστιν του θεου καταργησει
Romans 3:3 For what if some did not believe? shall their unbelief make the faith of God without effect?
Romans 3:4 μη γενοιτο γινεσθω δε ο θεος αληθης πας δε ανθρωπος ψευστης καθως γεγραπται οπως αν δικαιωθης εν τοις λογοις σου και νικησης εν τω κρινεσθαι σε
Romans 3:4 God forbid: yea, let God be true, but every man a liar; as it is written, That thou mightest be justified in thy sayings, and mightest overcome when thou art judged.
Romans 3:5 ει δε η αδικια ημων θεου δικαιοσυνην συνιστησιν τι ερουμεν μη αδικος ο θεος ο επιφερων την οργην κατα ανθρωπον λεγω
Romans 3:5 But if our unrighteousness commend the righteousness of God, what shall we say? Is God unrighteous who taketh vengeance? (I speak as a man)
Romans 3:6 μη γενοιτο επει πως κρινει ο θεος τον κοσμον
Romans 3:6 God forbid: for then how shall God judge the world?
Romans 3:7 ει γαρ η αληθεια του θεου εν τω εμω ψευσματι επερισσευσεν εις την δοξαν αυτου τι ετι καγω ως αμαρτωλος κρινομαι
Romans 3:7 For if the truth of God hath more abounded through my lie unto his glory; why yet am I also judged as a sinner?
Romans 3:8 και μη καθως βλασφημουμεθα και καθως φασιν τινες ημας λεγειν οτι ποιησωμεν τα κακα ινα ελθη τα αγαθα ων το κριμα ενδικον εστιν
Romans 3:8 And not rather, (as we be slanderously reported, and as some affirm that we say,) Let us do evil, that good may come? whose damnation is just.
Romans 3:9 τι ουν προεχομεθα ου παντως προητιασαμεθα γαρ ιουδαιους τε και ελληνας παντας υφ αμαρτιαν ειναι
Romans 3:9 What then? are we better than they? No, in no wise: for we have before proved both Jews and Gentiles, that they are all under sin;
Romans 3:10 καθως γεγραπται οτι ουκ εστιν δικαιος ουδε εις
Romans 3:10 As it is written, There is none righteous, no, not one:
Romans 3:11 ουκ εστιν ο συνιων ουκ εστιν ο εκζητων τον θεον
Romans 3:11 There is none that understandeth, there is none that seeketh after God.
Romans 3:12 παντες εξεκλιναν αμα ηχρειωθησαν ουκ εστιν ποιων χρηστοτητα ουκ εστιν εως ενος
Romans 3:12 They are all gone out of the way, they are together become unprofitable; there is none that doeth good, no, not one.
Romans 3:13 ταφος ανεωγμενος ο λαρυγξ αυτων ταις γλωσσαις αυτων εδολιουσαν ιος ασπιδων υπο τα χειλη αυτων
Romans 3:13 Their throat is an open sepulchre; with their tongues they have used deceit; the poison of asps is under their lips:
Romans 3:14 ων το στομα αρας και πικριας γεμει
Romans 3:14 Whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness:
Romans 3:15 οξεις οι ποδες αυτων εκχεαι αιμα
Romans 3:15 Their feet are swift to shed blood:
Romans 3:16 συντριμμα και ταλαιπωρια εν ταις οδοις αυτων
Romans 3:16 Destruction and misery are in their ways:
Romans 3:17 και οδον ειρηνης ουκ εγνωσαν
Romans 3:17 And the way of peace have they not known:
Romans 3:18 ουκ εστιν φοβος θεου απεναντι των οφθαλμων αυτων
Romans 3:18 There is no fear of God before their eyes.
Romans 3:19 οιδαμεν δε οτι οσα ο νομος λεγει τοις εν τω νομω λαλει ινα παν στομα φραγη και υποδικος γενηται πας ο κοσμος τω θεω
Romans 3:19 Now we know that what things soever the law saith, it saith to them who are under the law: that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may become guilty before God.
Romans 3:20 διοτι εξ εργων νομου ου δικαιωθησεται πασα σαρξ ενωπιον αυτου δια γαρ νομου επιγνωσις αμαρτιας
Romans 3:20 Therefore by the deeds of the law there shall no flesh be justified in his sight: for by the law is the knowledge of sin.
Romans 3:21 νυνι δε χωρις νομου δικαιοσυνη θεου πεφανερωται μαρτυρουμενη υπο του νομου και των προφητων
Romans 3:21 But now the righteousness of God without the law is manifested, being witnessed by the law and the prophets;
Romans 3:22 δικαιοσυνη δε θεου δια πιστεως ιησου χριστου εις παντας και επι παντας τους πιστευοντας ου γαρ εστιν διαστολη
Romans 3:22 Even the righteousness of God which is by faith of Jesus Christ unto all and upon all them that believe: for there is no difference:
Romans 3:23 παντες γαρ ημαρτον και υστερουνται της δοξης του θεου
Romans 3:23 For all have sinned, and come short of the glory of God;
Romans 3:24 δικαιουμενοι δωρεαν τη αυτου χαριτι δια της απολυτρωσεως της εν χριστω ιησου
Romans 3:24 Being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus:
Romans 3:25 ον προεθετο ο θεος ιλαστηριον δια της πιστεως εν τω αυτου αιματι εις ενδειξιν της δικαιοσυνης αυτου δια την παρεσιν των προγεγονοτων αμαρτηματων
Romans 3:25 Whom God hath set forth to be a propitiation through faith in his blood, to declare his righteousness for the remission of sins that are past, through the forbearance of God;
Romans 3:26 εν τη ανοχη του θεου προς ενδειξιν της δικαιοσυνης αυτου εν τω νυν καιρω εις το ειναι αυτον δικαιον και δικαιουντα τον εκ πιστεως ιησου
Romans 3:26 To declare, I say, at this time his righteousness: that he might be just, and the justifier of him which believeth in Jesus.
Romans 3:27 που ουν η καυχησις εξεκλεισθη δια ποιου νομου των εργων ουχι αλλα δια νομου πιστεως
Romans 3:27 Where is boasting then? It is excluded. By what law? of works?  Nay: but by the law of faith.
Romans 3:28 λογιζομεθα ουν πιστει δικαιουσθαι ανθρωπον χωρις εργων νομου
Romans 3:28 Therefore we conclude that a man is justified by faith without the deeds of the law.
Romans 3:29 η ιουδαιων ο θεος μονον ουχι δε και εθνων ναι και εθνων
Romans 3:29 Is he the God of the Jews only? is he not also of the Gentiles? Yes, of the Gentiles also:
Romans 3:30 επειπερ εις ο θεος ος δικαιωσει περιτομην εκ πιστεως και ακροβυστιαν δια της πιστεως
Romans 3:30 Seeing it is one God, which shall justify the circumcision by faith, and uncircumcision through faith.
Romans 3:31 νομον ουν καταργουμεν δια της πιστεως μη γενοιτο αλλα νομον ιστωμεν
Romans 3:31 Do we then make void the law through faith? God forbid: yea, we establish the law.
Romans 4:1 τι ουν ερουμεν αβρααμ τον πατερα ημων ευρηκεναι κατα σαρκα
Romans 4:1 What shall we say then that Abraham our father, as pertaining to the flesh, hath found?
Romans 4:2 ει γαρ αβρααμ εξ εργων εδικαιωθη εχει καυχημα αλλ ου προς τον θεον
Romans 4:2 For if Abraham were justified by works, he hath whereof to glory; but not before God.
Romans 4:3 τι γαρ η γραφη λεγει επιστευσεν δε αβρααμ τω θεω και ελογισθη αυτω εις δικαιοσυνην
Romans 4:3 For what saith the scripture? Abraham believed God, and it was counted unto him for righteousness.
Romans 4:4 τω δε εργαζομενω ο μισθος ου λογιζεται κατα χαριν αλλα κατα το οφειλημα
Romans 4:4 Now to him that worketh is the reward not reckoned of grace, but of debt.
Romans 4:5 τω δε μη εργαζομενω πιστευοντι δε επι τον δικαιουντα τον ασεβη λογιζεται η πιστις αυτου εις δικαιοσυνην
Romans 4:5 But to him that worketh not, but believeth on him that justifieth the ungodly, his faith is counted for righteousness.
Romans 4:6 καθαπερ και δαβιδ λεγει τον μακαρισμον του ανθρωπου ω ο θεος λογιζεται δικαιοσυνην χωρις εργων
Romans 4:6 Even as David also describeth the blessedness of the man, unto whom God imputeth righteousness without works,
Romans 4:7 μακαριοι ων αφεθησαν αι ανομιαι και ων επεκαλυφθησαν αι αμαρτιαι
Romans 4:7 Saying, Blessed are they whose iniquities are forgiven, and whose sins are covered.
Romans 4:8 μακαριος ανηρ ω ου μη λογισηται κυριος αμαρτιαν
Romans 4:8 Blessed is the man to whom the Lord will not impute sin.
Romans 4:9 ο μακαρισμος ουν ουτος επι την περιτομην η και επι την ακροβυστιαν λεγομεν γαρ οτι ελογισθη τω αβρααμ η πιστις εις δικαιοσυνην
Romans 4:9 Cometh this blessedness then upon the circumcision only, or upon the uncircumcision also? for we say that faith was reckoned to Abraham for righteousness.
Romans 4:10 πως ουν ελογισθη εν περιτομη οντι η εν ακροβυστια ουκ εν περιτομη αλλ εν ακροβυστια
Romans 4:10 How was it then reckoned? when he was in circumcision, or in uncircumcision? Not in circumcision, but in uncircumcision.
Romans 4:11 και σημειον ελαβεν περιτομης σφραγιδα της δικαιοσυνης της πιστεως της εν τη ακροβυστια εις το ειναι αυτον πατερα παντων των πιστευοντων δι ακροβυστιας εις το λογισθηναι και αυτοις την δικαιοσυνην
Romans 4:11 And he received the sign of circumcision, a seal of the righteousness of the faith which he had yet being uncircumcised: that he might be the father of all them that believe, though they be not circumcised; that righteousness might be imputed unto them also:
Romans 4:12 και πατερα περιτομης τοις ουκ εκ περιτομης μονον αλλα και τοις στοιχουσιν τοις ιχνεσιν της εν τη ακροβυστια πιστεως του πατρος ημων αβρααμ
Romans 4:12 And the father of circumcision to them who are not of the circumcision only, but who also walk in the steps of that faith of our father Abraham, which he had being yet uncircumcised.
Romans 4:13 ου γαρ δια νομου η επαγγελια τω αβρααμ η τω σπερματι αυτου το κληρονομον αυτον ειναι του κοσμου αλλα δια δικαιοσυνης πιστεως
Romans 4:13 For the promise, that he should be the heir of the world, was not to Abraham, or to his seed, through the law, but through the righteousness of faith.
Romans 4:14 ει γαρ οι εκ νομου κληρονομοι κεκενωται η πιστις και κατηργηται η επαγγελια
Romans 4:14 For if they which are of the law be heirs, faith is made void, and the promise made of none effect:
Romans 4:15 ο γαρ νομος οργην κατεργαζεται ου γαρ ουκ εστιν νομος ουδε παραβασις
Romans 4:15 Because the law worketh wrath: for where no law is, there is no transgression.
Romans 4:16 δια τουτο εκ πιστεως ινα κατα χαριν εις το ειναι βεβαιαν την επαγγελιαν παντι τω σπερματι ου τω εκ του νομου μονον αλλα και τω εκ πιστεως αβρααμ ος εστιν πατηρ παντων ημων
Romans 4:16 Therefore it is of faith, that it might be by grace; to the end the promise might be sure to all the seed; not to that only which is of the law, but to that also which is of the faith of Abraham; who is the father of us all,
Romans 4:17 καθως γεγραπται οτι πατερα πολλων εθνων τεθεικα σε κατεναντι ου επιστευσεν θεου του ζωοποιουντος τους νεκρους και καλουντος τα μη οντα ως οντα
Romans 4:17 (As it is written, I have made thee a father of many nations,) before him whom he believed, even God, who quickeneth the dead, and calleth those things which be not as though they were.
Romans 4:18 ος παρ ελπιδα επ ελπιδι επιστευσεν εις το γενεσθαι αυτον πατερα πολλων εθνων κατα το ειρημενον ουτως εσται το σπερμα σου
Romans 4:18 Who against hope believed in hope, that he might become the father of many nations, according to that which was spoken, So shall thy seed be.
Romans 4:19 και μη ασθενησας τη πιστει ου κατενοησεν το εαυτου σωμα ηδη νενεκρωμενον εκατονταετης που υπαρχων και την νεκρωσιν της μητρας σαρρας
Romans 4:19 And being not weak in faith, he considered not his own body now dead, when he was about an hundred years old, neither yet the deadness of Sarah's womb:
Romans 4:20 εις δε την επαγγελιαν του θεου ου διεκριθη τη απιστια αλλ ενεδυναμωθη τη πιστει δους δοξαν τω θεω
Romans 4:20 He staggered not at the promise of God through unbelief; but was strong in faith, giving glory to God;
Romans 4:21 και πληροφορηθεις οτι ο επηγγελται δυνατος εστιν και ποιησαι
Romans 4:21 And being fully persuaded that, what he had promised, he was able also to perform.
Romans 4:22 διο και ελογισθη αυτω εις δικαιοσυνην
Romans 4:22 And therefore it was imputed to him for righteousness.
Romans 4:23 ουκ εγραφη δε δι αυτον μονον οτι ελογισθη αυτω
Romans 4:23 Now it was not written for his sake alone, that it was imputed to him;
Romans 4:24 αλλα και δι ημας οις μελλει λογιζεσθαι τοις πιστευουσιν επι τον εγειραντα ιησουν τον κυριον ημων εκ νεκρων
Romans 4:24 But for us also, to whom it shall be imputed, if we believe on him that raised up Jesus our Lord from the dead;
Romans 4:25 ος παρεδοθη δια τα παραπτωματα ημων και ηγερθη δια την δικαιωσιν ημων
Romans 4:25 Who was delivered for our offences, and was raised again for our justification.
Romans 5:1 δικαιωθεντες ουν εκ πιστεως ειρηνην εχομεν προς τον θεον δια του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου
Romans 5:1 Therefore being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ:
Romans 5:2 δι ου και την προσαγωγην εσχηκαμεν τη πιστει εις την χαριν ταυτην εν η εστηκαμεν και καυχωμεθα επ ελπιδι της δοξης του θεου
Romans 5:2 By whom also we have access by faith into this grace wherein we stand, and rejoice in hope of the glory of God.
Romans 5:3 ου μονον δε αλλα και καυχωμεθα εν ταις θλιψεσιν ειδοτες οτι η θλιψις υπομονην κατεργαζεται
Romans 5:3 And not only so, but we glory in tribulations also: knowing that tribulation worketh patience;
Romans 5:4 η δε υπομονη δοκιμην η δε δοκιμη ελπιδα
Romans 5:4 And patience, experience; and experience, hope:
Romans 5:5 η δε ελπις ου καταισχυνει οτι η αγαπη του θεου εκκεχυται εν ταις καρδιαις ημων δια πνευματος αγιου του δοθεντος ημιν
Romans 5:5 And hope maketh not ashamed; because the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost which is given unto us.
Romans 5:6 ετι γαρ χριστος οντων ημων ασθενων κατα καιρον υπερ ασεβων απεθανεν
Romans 5:6 For when we were yet without strength, in due time Christ died for the ungodly.
Romans 5:7 μολις γαρ υπερ δικαιου τις αποθανειται υπερ γαρ του αγαθου ταχα τις και τολμα αποθανειν
Romans 5:7 For scarcely for a righteous man will one die: yet peradventure for a good man some would even dare to die.
Romans 5:8 συνιστησιν δε την εαυτου αγαπην εις ημας ο θεος οτι ετι αμαρτωλων οντων ημων χριστος υπερ ημων απεθανεν
Romans 5:8 But God commendeth his love toward us, in that, while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us.
Romans 5:9 πολλω ουν μαλλον δικαιωθεντες νυν εν τω αιματι αυτου σωθησομεθα δι αυτου απο της οργης
Romans 5:9 Much more then, being now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him.
Romans 5:10 ει γαρ εχθροι οντες κατηλλαγημεν τω θεω δια του θανατου του υιου αυτου πολλω μαλλον καταλλαγεντες σωθησομεθα εν τη ζωη αυτου
Romans 5:10 For if, when we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son, much more, being reconciled, we shall be saved by his life.
Romans 5:11 ου μονον δε αλλα και καυχωμενοι εν τω θεω δια του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου δι ου νυν την καταλλαγην ελαβομεν
Romans 5:11 And not only so, but we also joy in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom we have now received the atonement.
Romans 5:12 δια τουτο ωσπερ δι ενος ανθρωπου η αμαρτια εις τον κοσμον εισηλθεν και δια της αμαρτιας ο θανατος και ουτως εις παντας ανθρωπους ο θανατος διηλθεν εφ ω παντες ημαρτον
Romans 5:12 Wherefore, as by one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin; and so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned:
Romans 5:13 αχρι γαρ νομου αμαρτια ην εν κοσμω αμαρτια δε ουκ ελλογειται μη οντος νομου
Romans 5:13 (For until the law sin was in the world: but sin is not imputed when there is no law.
Romans 5:14 αλλ εβασιλευσεν ο θανατος απο αδαμ μεχρι μωσεως και επι τους μη αμαρτησαντας επι τω ομοιωματι της παραβασεως αδαμ ος εστιν τυπος του μελλοντος
Romans 5:14 Nevertheless death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over them that had not sinned after the similitude of Adam's transgression, who is the figure of him that was to come.
Romans 5:15 αλλ ουχ ως το παραπτωμα ουτως και το χαρισμα ει γαρ τω του ενος παραπτωματι οι πολλοι απεθανον πολλω μαλλον η χαρις του θεου και η δωρεα εν χαριτι τη του ενος ανθρωπου ιησου χριστου εις τους πολλους επερισσευσεν
Romans 5:15 But not as the offence, so also is the free gift. For if through the offence of one many be dead, much more the grace of God, and the gift by grace, which is by one man, Jesus Christ, hath abounded unto many.
Romans 5:16 και ουχ ως δι ενος αμαρτησαντος το δωρημα το μεν γαρ κριμα εξ ενος εις κατακριμα το δε χαρισμα εκ πολλων παραπτωματων εις δικαιωμα
Romans 5:16 And not as it was by one that sinned, so is the gift: for the judgment was by one to condemnation, but the free gift is of many offences unto justification.
Romans 5:17 ει γαρ τω του ενος παραπτωματι ο θανατος εβασιλευσεν δια του ενος πολλω μαλλον οι την περισσειαν της χαριτος και της δωρεας της δικαιοσυνης λαμβανοντες εν ζωη βασιλευσουσιν δια του ενος ιησου χριστου
Romans 5:17 For if by one man's offence death reigned by one; much more they which receive abundance of grace and of the gift of righteousness shall reign in life by one, Jesus Christ.)
Romans 5:18 αρα ουν ως δι ενος παραπτωματος εις παντας ανθρωπους εις κατακριμα ουτως και δι ενος δικαιωματος εις παντας ανθρωπους εις δικαιωσιν ζωης
Romans 5:18 Therefore as by the offence of one judgment came upon all men to condemnation; even so by the righteousness of one the free gift came upon all men unto justification of life.
Romans 5:19 ωσπερ γαρ δια της παρακοης του ενος ανθρωπου αμαρτωλοι κατεσταθησαν οι πολλοι ουτως και δια της υπακοης του ενος δικαιοι κατασταθησονται οι πολλοι
Romans 5:19 For as by one man's disobedience many were made sinners, so by the obedience of one shall many be made righteous.
Romans 5:20 νομος δε παρεισηλθεν ινα πλεοναση το παραπτωμα ου δε επλεονασεν η αμαρτια υπερεπερισσευσεν η χαρις
Romans 5:20 Moreover the law entered, that the offence might abound. But where sin abounded, grace did much more abound:
Romans 5:21 ινα ωσπερ εβασιλευσεν η αμαρτια εν τω θανατω ουτως και η χαρις βασιλευση δια δικαιοσυνης εις ζωην αιωνιον δια ιησου χριστου του κυριου ημων
Romans 5:21 That as sin hath reigned unto death, even so might grace reign through righteousness unto eternal life by Jesus Christ our Lord.
Romans 6:1 τι ουν ερουμεν επιμενουμεν τη αμαρτια ινα η χαρις πλεοναση
Romans 6:1 What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin, that grace may abound?
Romans 6:2 μη γενοιτο οιτινες απεθανομεν τη αμαρτια πως ετι ζησομεν εν αυτη
Romans 6:2 God forbid. How shall we, that are dead to sin, live any longer therein?
Romans 6:3 η αγνοειτε οτι οσοι εβαπτισθημεν εις χριστον ιησουν εις τον θανατον αυτου εβαπτισθημεν
Romans 6:3 Know ye not, that so many of us as were baptized into Jesus Christ were baptized into his death?
Romans 6:4 συνεταφημεν ουν αυτω δια του βαπτισματος εις τον θανατον ινα ωσπερ ηγερθη χριστος εκ νεκρων δια της δοξης του πατρος ουτως και ημεις εν καινοτητι ζωης περιπατησωμεν
Romans 6:4 Therefore we are buried with him by baptism into death: that like as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk in newness of life.
Romans 6:5 ει γαρ συμφυτοι γεγοναμεν τω ομοιωματι του θανατου αυτου αλλα και της αναστασεως εσομεθα
Romans 6:5 For if we have been planted together in the likeness of his death, we shall be also in the likeness of his resurrection:
Romans 6:6 τουτο γινωσκοντες οτι ο παλαιος ημων ανθρωπος συνεσταυρωθη ινα καταργηθη το σωμα της αμαρτιας του μηκετι δουλευειν ημας τη αμαρτια
Romans 6:6 Knowing this, that our old man is crucified with him, that the body of sin might be destroyed, that henceforth we should not serve sin.
Romans 6:7 ο γαρ αποθανων δεδικαιωται απο της αμαρτιας
Romans 6:7 For he that is dead is freed from sin.
Romans 6:8 ει δε απεθανομεν συν χριστω πιστευομεν οτι και συζησομεν αυτω
Romans 6:8 Now if we be dead with Christ, we believe that we shall also live with him:
Romans 6:9 ειδοτες οτι χριστος εγερθεις εκ νεκρων ουκετι αποθνησκει θανατος αυτου ουκετι κυριευει
Romans 6:9 Knowing that Christ being raised from the dead dieth no more; death hath no more dominion over him.
Romans 6:10 ο γαρ απεθανεν τη αμαρτια απεθανεν εφαπαξ ο δε ζη ζη τω θεω
Romans 6:10 For in that he died, he died unto sin once: but in that he liveth, he liveth unto God.
Romans 6:11 ουτως και υμεις λογιζεσθε εαυτους νεκρους μεν ειναι τη αμαρτια ζωντας δε τω θεω εν χριστω ιησου τω κυριω ημων
Romans 6:11 Likewise reckon ye also yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord.
Romans 6:12 μη ουν βασιλευετω η αμαρτια εν τω θνητω υμων σωματι εις το υπακουειν αυτη εν ταις επιθυμιαις αυτου
Romans 6:12 Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body, that ye should obey it in the lusts thereof.
Romans 6:13 μηδε παριστανετε τα μελη υμων οπλα αδικιας τη αμαρτια αλλα παραστησατε εαυτους τω θεω ως εκ νεκρων ζωντας και τα μελη υμων οπλα δικαιοσυνης τω θεω
Romans 6:13 Neither yield ye your members as instruments of unrighteousness unto sin: but yield yourselves unto God, as those that are alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness unto God.
Romans 6:14 αμαρτια γαρ υμων ου κυριευσει ου γαρ εστε υπο νομον αλλ υπο χαριν
Romans 6:14 For sin shall not have dominion over you: for ye are not under the law, but under grace.
Romans 6:15 τι ουν αμαρτησομεν οτι ουκ εσμεν υπο νομον αλλ υπο χαριν μη γενοιτο
Romans 6:15 What then? shall we sin, because we are not under the law, but under grace? God forbid.
Romans 6:16 ουκ οιδατε οτι ω παριστανετε εαυτους δουλους εις υπακοην δουλοι εστε ω υπακουετε ητοι αμαρτιας εις θανατον η υπακοης εις δικαιοσυνην
Romans 6:16 Know ye not, that to whom ye yield yourselves servants to obey, his servants ye are to whom ye obey; whether of sin unto death, or of obedience unto righteousness?
Romans 6:17 χαρις δε τω θεω οτι ητε δουλοι της αμαρτιας υπηκουσατε δε εκ καρδιας εις ον παρεδοθητε τυπον διδαχης
Romans 6:17 But God be thanked, that ye were the servants of sin, but ye have obeyed from the heart that form of doctrine which was delivered you.
Romans 6:18 ελευθερωθεντες δε απο της αμαρτιας εδουλωθητε τη δικαιοσυνη
Romans 6:18 Being then made free from sin, ye became the servants of righteousness.
Romans 6:19 ανθρωπινον λεγω δια την ασθενειαν της σαρκος υμων ωσπερ γαρ παρεστησατε τα μελη υμων δουλα τη ακαθαρσια και τη ανομια εις την ανομιαν ουτως νυν παραστησατε τα μελη υμων δουλα τη δικαιοσυνη εις αγιασμον
Romans 6:19 I speak after the manner of men because of the infirmity of your flesh: for as ye have yielded your members servants to uncleanness and to iniquity unto iniquity; even so now yield your members servants to righteousness unto holiness.
Romans 6:20 οτε γαρ δουλοι ητε της αμαρτιας ελευθεροι ητε τη δικαιοσυνη
Romans 6:20 For when ye were the servants of sin, ye were free from righteousness.
Romans 6:21 τινα ουν καρπον ειχετε τοτε εφ οις νυν επαισχυνεσθε το γαρ τελος εκεινων θανατος
Romans 6:21 What fruit had ye then in those things whereof ye are now ashamed? for the end of those things is death.
Romans 6:22 νυνι δε ελευθερωθεντες απο της αμαρτιας δουλωθεντες δε τω θεω εχετε τον καρπον υμων εις αγιασμον το δε τελος ζωην αιωνιον
Romans 6:22 But now being made free from sin, and become servants to God, ye have your fruit unto holiness, and the end everlasting life.
Romans 6:23 τα γαρ οψωνια της αμαρτιας θανατος το δε χαρισμα του θεου ζωη αιωνιος εν χριστω ιησου τω κυριω ημων
Romans 6:23 For the wages of sin is death; but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.
Romans 7:1 η αγνοειτε αδελφοι γινωσκουσιν γαρ νομον λαλω οτι ο νομος κυριευει του ανθρωπου εφ οσον χρονον ζη
Romans 7:1 Know ye not, brethren, (for I speak to them that know the law,) how that the law hath dominion over a man as long as he liveth?
Romans 7:2 η γαρ υπανδρος γυνη τω ζωντι ανδρι δεδεται νομω εαν δε αποθανη ο ανηρ κατηργηται απο του νομου του ανδρος
Romans 7:2 For the woman which hath an husband is bound by the law to her husband so long as he liveth; but if the husband be dead, she is loosed from the law of her husband.
Romans 7:3 αρα ουν ζωντος του ανδρος μοιχαλις χρηματισει εαν γενηται ανδρι ετερω εαν δε αποθανη ο ανηρ ελευθερα εστιν απο του νομου του μη ειναι αυτην μοιχαλιδα γενομενην ανδρι ετερω
Romans 7:3 So then if, while her husband liveth, she be married to another man, she shall be called an adulteress: but if her husband be dead, she is free from that law; so that she is no adulteress, though she be married to another man.
Romans 7:4 ωστε αδελφοι μου και υμεις εθανατωθητε τω νομω δια του σωματος του χριστου εις το γενεσθαι υμας ετερω τω εκ νεκρων εγερθεντι ινα καρποφορησωμεν τω θεω
Romans 7:4 Wherefore, my brethren, ye also are become dead to the law by the body of Christ; that ye should be married to another, even to him who is raised from the dead, that we should bring forth fruit unto God.
Romans 7:5 οτε γαρ ημεν εν τη σαρκι τα παθηματα των αμαρτιων τα δια του νομου ενηργειτο εν τοις μελεσιν ημων εις το καρποφορησαι τω θανατω
Romans 7:5 For when we were in the flesh, the motions of sins, which were by the law, did work in our members to bring forth fruit unto death.
Romans 7:6 νυνι δε κατηργηθημεν απο του νομου αποθανοντες εν ω κατειχομεθα ωστε δουλευειν ημας εν καινοτητι πνευματος και ου παλαιοτητι γραμματος
Romans 7:6 But now we are delivered from the law, that being dead wherein we were held; that we should serve in newness of spirit, and not in the oldness of the letter.
Romans 7:7 τι ουν ερουμεν ο νομος αμαρτια μη γενοιτο αλλα την αμαρτιαν ουκ εγνων ει μη δια νομου την τε γαρ επιθυμιαν ουκ ηδειν ει μη ο νομος ελεγεν ουκ επιθυμησεις
Romans 7:7 What shall we say then? Is the law sin? God forbid. Nay, I had not known sin, but by the law: for I had not known lust, except the law had said, Thou shalt not covet.
Romans 7:8 αφορμην δε λαβουσα η αμαρτια δια της εντολης κατειργασατο εν εμοι πασαν επιθυμιαν χωρις γαρ νομου αμαρτια νεκρα
Romans 7:8 But sin, taking occasion by the commandment, wrought in me all manner of concupiscence. For without the law sin was dead.
Romans 7:9 εγω δε εζων χωρις νομου ποτε ελθουσης δε της εντολης η αμαρτια ανεζησεν εγω δε απεθανον
Romans 7:9 For I was alive without the law once: but when the commandment came, sin revived, and I died.
Romans 7:10 και ευρεθη μοι η εντολη η εις ζωην αυτη εις θανατον
Romans 7:10 And the commandment, which was ordained to life, I found to be unto death.
Romans 7:11 η γαρ αμαρτια αφορμην λαβουσα δια της εντολης εξηπατησεν με και δι αυτης απεκτεινεν
Romans 7:11 For sin, taking occasion by the commandment, deceived me, and by it slew me.
Romans 7:12 ωστε ο μεν νομος αγιος και η εντολη αγια και δικαια και αγαθη
Romans 7:12 Wherefore the law is holy, and the commandment holy, and just, and good.
Romans 7:13 το ουν αγαθον εμοι γεγονεν θανατος μη γενοιτο αλλα η αμαρτια ινα φανη αμαρτια δια του αγαθου μοι κατεργαζομενη θανατον ινα γενηται καθ υπερβολην αμαρτωλος η αμαρτια δια της εντολης
Romans 7:13 Was then that which is good made death unto me? God forbid.  But sin, that it might appear sin, working death in me by that which is good; that sin by the commandment might become exceeding sinful.
Romans 7:14 οιδαμεν γαρ οτι ο νομος πνευματικος εστιν εγω δε σαρκικος ειμι πεπραμενος υπο την αμαρτιαν
Romans 7:14 For we know that the law is spiritual: but I am carnal, sold under sin.
Romans 7:15 ο γαρ κατεργαζομαι ου γινωσκω ου γαρ ο θελω τουτο πρασσω αλλ ο μισω τουτο ποιω
Romans 7:15 For that which I do I allow not: for what I would, that do I not; but what I hate, that do I.
Romans 7:16 ει δε ο ου θελω τουτο ποιω συμφημι τω νομω οτι καλος
Romans 7:16 If then I do that which I would not, I consent unto the law that it is good.
Romans 7:17 νυνι δε ουκετι εγω κατεργαζομαι αυτο αλλ η οικουσα εν εμοι αμαρτια
Romans 7:17 Now then it is no more I that do it, but sin that dwelleth in me.
Romans 7:18 οιδα γαρ οτι ουκ οικει εν εμοι τουτεστιν εν τη σαρκι μου αγαθον το γαρ θελειν παρακειται μοι το δε κατεργαζεσθαι το καλον ουχ ευρισκω
Romans 7:18 For I know that in me (that is, in my flesh,) dwelleth no good thing: for to will is present with me; but how to perform that which is good I find not.
Romans 7:19 ου γαρ ο θελω ποιω αγαθον αλλ ο ου θελω κακον τουτο πρασσω
Romans 7:19 For the good that I would I do not: but the evil which I would not, that I do.
Romans 7:20 ει δε ο ου θελω εγω τουτο ποιω ουκετι εγω κατεργαζομαι αυτο αλλ η οικουσα εν εμοι αμαρτια
Romans 7:20 Now if I do that I would not, it is no more I that do it, but sin that dwelleth in me.
Romans 7:21 ευρισκω αρα τον νομον τω θελοντι εμοι ποιειν το καλον οτι εμοι το κακον παρακειται
Romans 7:21 I find then a law, that, when I would do good, evil is present with me.
Romans 7:22 συνηδομαι γαρ τω νομω του θεου κατα τον εσω ανθρωπον
Romans 7:22 For I delight in the law of God after the inward man:
Romans 7:23 βλεπω δε ετερον νομον εν τοις μελεσιν μου αντιστρατευομενον τω νομω του νοος μου και αιχμαλωτιζοντα με τω νομω της αμαρτιας τω οντι εν τοις μελεσιν μου
Romans 7:23 But I see another law in my members, warring against the law of my mind, and bringing me into captivity to the law of sin which is in my members.
Romans 7:24 ταλαιπωρος εγω ανθρωπος τις με ρυσεται εκ του σωματος του θανατου τουτου
Romans 7:24 O wretched man that I am! who shall deliver me from the body of this death?
Romans 7:25 ευχαριστω τω θεω δια ιησου χριστου του κυριου ημων αρα ουν αυτος εγω τω μεν νοι δουλευω νομω θεου τη δε σαρκι νομω αμαρτιας
Romans 7:25 I thank God through Jesus Christ our Lord. So then with the mind I myself serve the law of God; but with the flesh the law of sin.
Romans 8:1 ουδεν αρα νυν κατακριμα τοις εν χριστω ιησου μη κατα σαρκα περιπατουσιν αλλα κατα πνευμα
Romans 8:1 There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus, who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit.
Romans 8:2 ο γαρ νομος του πνευματος της ζωης εν χριστω ιησου ηλευθερωσεν με απο του νομου της αμαρτιας και του θανατου
Romans 8:2 For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus hath made me free from the law of sin and death.
Romans 8:3 το γαρ αδυνατον του νομου εν ω ησθενει δια της σαρκος ο θεος τον εαυτου υιον πεμψας εν ομοιωματι σαρκος αμαρτιας και περι αμαρτιας κατεκρινεν την αμαρτιαν εν τη σαρκι
Romans 8:3 For what the law could not do, in that it was weak through the flesh, God sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin, condemned sin in the flesh:
Romans 8:4 ινα το δικαιωμα του νομου πληρωθη εν ημιν τοις μη κατα σαρκα περιπατουσιν αλλα κατα πνευμα
Romans 8:4 That the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit.
Romans 8:5 οι γαρ κατα σαρκα οντες τα της σαρκος φρονουσιν οι δε κατα πνευμα τα του πνευματος
Romans 8:5 For they that are after the flesh do mind the things of the flesh; but they that are after the Spirit the things of the Spirit.
Romans 8:6 το γαρ φρονημα της σαρκος θανατος το δε φρονημα του πνευματος ζωη και ειρηνη
Romans 8:6 For to be carnally minded is death; but to be spiritually minded is life and peace.
Romans 8:7 διοτι το φρονημα της σαρκος εχθρα εις θεον τω γαρ νομω του θεου ουχ υποτασσεται ουδε γαρ δυναται
Romans 8:7 Because the carnal mind is enmity against God: for it is not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can be.
Romans 8:8 οι δε εν σαρκι οντες θεω αρεσαι ου δυνανται
Romans 8:8 So then they that are in the flesh cannot please God.
Romans 8:9 υμεις δε ουκ εστε εν σαρκι αλλ εν πνευματι ειπερ πνευμα θεου οικει εν υμιν ει δε τις πνευμα χριστου ουκ εχει ουτος ουκ εστιν αυτου
Romans 8:9 But ye are not in the flesh, but in the Spirit, if so be that the Spirit of God dwell in you. Now if any man have not the Spirit of Christ, he is none of his.
Romans 8:10 ει δε χριστος εν υμιν το μεν σωμα νεκρον δι αμαρτιαν το δε πνευμα ζωη δια δικαιοσυνην
Romans 8:10 And if Christ be in you, the body is dead because of sin; but the Spirit is life because of righteousness.
Romans 8:11 ει δε το πνευμα του εγειραντος ιησουν εκ νεκρων οικει εν υμιν ο εγειρας τον χριστον εκ νεκρων ζωοποιησει και τα θνητα σωματα υμων δια το ενοικουν αυτου πνευμα εν υμιν
Romans 8:11 But if the Spirit of him that raised up Jesus from the dead dwell in you, he that raised up Christ from the dead shall also quicken your mortal bodies by his Spirit that dwelleth in you.
Romans 8:12 αρα ουν αδελφοι οφειλεται εσμεν ου τη σαρκι του κατα σαρκα ζην
Romans 8:12 Therefore, brethren, we are debtors, not to the flesh, to live after the flesh.
Romans 8:13 ει γαρ κατα σαρκα ζητε μελλετε αποθνησκειν ει δε πνευματι τας πραξεις του σωματος θανατουτε ζησεσθε
Romans 8:13 For if ye live after the flesh, ye shall die: but if ye through the Spirit do mortify the deeds of the body, ye shall live.
Romans 8:14 οσοι γαρ πνευματι θεου αγονται ουτοι εισιν υιοι θεου
Romans 8:14 For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God.
Romans 8:15 ου γαρ ελαβετε πνευμα δουλειας παλιν εις φοβον αλλ ελαβετε πνευμα υιοθεσιας εν ω κραζομεν αββα ο πατηρ
Romans 8:15 For ye have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear; but ye have received the Spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba, Father.
Romans 8:16 αυτο το πνευμα συμμαρτυρει τω πνευματι ημων οτι εσμεν τεκνα θεου
Romans 8:16 The Spirit itself beareth witness with our spirit, that we are the children of God:
Romans 8:17 ει δε τεκνα και κληρονομοι κληρονομοι μεν θεου συγκληρονομοι δε χριστου ειπερ συμπασχομεν ινα και συνδοξασθωμεν
Romans 8:17 And if children, then heirs; heirs of God, and joint-heirs with Christ; if so be that we suffer with him, that we may be also glorified together.
Romans 8:18 λογιζομαι γαρ οτι ουκ αξια τα παθηματα του νυν καιρου προς την μελλουσαν δοξαν αποκαλυφθηναι εις ημας
Romans 8:18 For I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us.
Romans 8:19 η γαρ αποκαραδοκια της κτισεως την αποκαλυψιν των υιων του θεου απεκδεχεται
Romans 8:19 For the earnest expectation of the creature waiteth for the manifestation of the sons of God.
Romans 8:20 τη γαρ ματαιοτητι η κτισις υπεταγη ουχ εκουσα αλλα δια τον υποταξαντα επ ελπιδι
Romans 8:20 For the creature was made subject to vanity, not willingly, but by reason of him who hath subjected the same in hope,
Romans 8:21 οτι και αυτη η κτισις ελευθερωθησεται απο της δουλειας της φθορας εις την ελευθεριαν της δοξης των τεκνων του θεου
Romans 8:21 Because the creature itself also shall be delivered from the bondage of corruption into the glorious liberty of the children of God.
Romans 8:22 οιδαμεν γαρ οτι πασα η κτισις συστεναζει και συνωδινει αχρι του νυν
Romans 8:22 For we know that the whole creation groaneth and travaileth in pain together until now.
Romans 8:23 ου μονον δε αλλα και αυτοι την απαρχην του πνευματος εχοντες και ημεις αυτοι εν εαυτοις στεναζομεν υιοθεσιαν απεκδεχομενοι την απολυτρωσιν του σωματος ημων
Romans 8:23 And not only they, but ourselves also, which have the firstfruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves groan within ourselves, waiting for the adoption, to wit, the redemption of our body.
Romans 8:24 τη γαρ ελπιδι εσωθημεν ελπις δε βλεπομενη ουκ εστιν ελπις ο γαρ βλεπει τις τι και ελπιζει
Romans 8:24 For we are saved by hope: but hope that is seen is not hope: for what a man seeth, why doth he yet hope for?
Romans 8:25 ει δε ο ου βλεπομεν ελπιζομεν δι υπομονης απεκδεχομεθα
Romans 8:25 But if we hope for that we see not, then do we with patience wait for it.
Romans 8:26 ωσαυτως δε και το πνευμα συναντιλαμβανεται ταις ασθενειαις ημων το γαρ τι προσευξωμεθα καθο δει ουκ οιδαμεν αλλ αυτο το πνευμα υπερεντυγχανει υπερ ημων στεναγμοις αλαλητοις
Romans 8:26 Likewise the Spirit also helpeth our infirmities: for we know not what we should pray for as we ought: but the Spirit itself maketh intercession for us with groanings which cannot be uttered.
Romans 8:27 ο δε ερευνων τας καρδιας οιδεν τι το φρονημα του πνευματος οτι κατα θεον εντυγχανει υπερ αγιων
Romans 8:27 And he that searcheth the hearts knoweth what is the mind of the Spirit, because he maketh intercession for the saints according to the will of God.
Romans 8:28 οιδαμεν δε οτι τοις αγαπωσιν τον θεον παντα συνεργει εις αγαθον τοις κατα προθεσιν κλητοις ουσιν
Romans 8:28 And we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose.
Romans 8:29 οτι ους προεγνω και προωρισεν συμμορφους της εικονος του υιου αυτου εις το ειναι αυτον πρωτοτοκον εν πολλοις αδελφοις
Romans 8:29 For whom he did foreknow, he also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his Son, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren.
Romans 8:30 ους δε προωρισεν τουτους και εκαλεσεν και ους εκαλεσεν τουτους και εδικαιωσεν ους δε εδικαιωσεν τουτους και εδοξασεν
Romans 8:30 Moreover whom he did predestinate, them he also called: and whom he called, them he also justified: and whom he justified, them he also glorified.
Romans 8:31 τι ουν ερουμεν προς ταυτα ει ο θεος υπερ ημων τις καθ ημων
Romans 8:31 What shall we then say to these things? If God be for us, who can be against us?
Romans 8:32 ος γε του ιδιου υιου ουκ εφεισατο αλλ υπερ ημων παντων παρεδωκεν αυτον πως ουχι και συν αυτω τα παντα ημιν χαρισεται
Romans 8:32 He that spared not his own Son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with him also freely give us all things?
Romans 8:33 τις εγκαλεσει κατα εκλεκτων θεου θεος ο δικαιων
Romans 8:33 Who shall lay any thing to the charge of God's elect? It is God that justifieth.
Romans 8:34 τις ο κατακρινων χριστος ο αποθανων μαλλον δε και εγερθεις ος και εστιν εν δεξια του θεου ος και εντυγχανει υπερ ημων
Romans 8:34 Who is he that condemneth? It is Christ that died, yea rather, that is risen again, who is even at the right hand of God, who also maketh intercession for us.
Romans 8:35 τις ημας χωρισει απο της αγαπης του χριστου θλιψις η στενοχωρια η διωγμος η λιμος η γυμνοτης η κινδυνος η μαχαιρα
Romans 8:35 Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? shall tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or peril, or sword?
Romans 8:36 καθως γεγραπται οτι ενεκα σου θανατουμεθα ολην την ημεραν ελογισθημεν ως προβατα σφαγης
Romans 8:36 As it is written, For thy sake we are killed all the day long; we are accounted as sheep for the slaughter.
Romans 8:37 αλλ εν τουτοις πασιν υπερνικωμεν δια του αγαπησαντος ημας
Romans 8:37 Nay, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him that loved us.
Romans 8:38 πεπεισμαι γαρ οτι ουτε θανατος ουτε ζωη ουτε αγγελοι ουτε αρχαι ουτε δυναμεις ουτε ενεστωτα ουτε μελλοντα
Romans 8:38 For I am persuaded, that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come,
Romans 8:39 ουτε υψωμα ουτε βαθος ουτε τις κτισις ετερα δυνησεται ημας χωρισαι απο της αγαπης του θεου της εν χριστω ιησου τω κυριω ημων
Romans 8:39 Nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature, shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.
Romans 9:1 αληθειαν λεγω εν χριστω ου ψευδομαι συμμαρτυρουσης μοι της συνειδησεως μου εν πνευματι αγιω
Romans 9:1 I say the truth in Christ, I lie not, my conscience also bearing me witness in the Holy Ghost,
Romans 9:2 οτι λυπη μοι εστιν μεγαλη και αδιαλειπτος οδυνη τη καρδια μου
Romans 9:2 That I have great heaviness and continual sorrow in my heart.
Romans 9:3 ηυχομην γαρ αυτος εγω αναθεμα ειναι απο του χριστου υπερ των αδελφων μου των συγγενων μου κατα σαρκα
Romans 9:3 For I could wish that myself were accursed from Christ for my brethren, my kinsmen according to the flesh:
Romans 9:4 οιτινες εισιν ισραηλιται ων η υιοθεσια και η δοξα και αι διαθηκαι και η νομοθεσια και η λατρεια και αι επαγγελιαι
Romans 9:4 Who are Israelites; to whom pertaineth the adoption, and the glory, and the covenants, and the giving of the law, and the service of God, and the promises;
Romans 9:5 ων οι πατερες και εξ ων ο χριστος το κατα σαρκα ο ων επι παντων θεος ευλογητος εις τους αιωνας αμην
Romans 9:5 Whose are the fathers, and of whom as concerning the flesh Christ came, who is over all, God blessed for ever. Amen.
Romans 9:6 ουχ οιον δε οτι εκπεπτωκεν ο λογος του θεου ου γαρ παντες οι εξ ισραηλ ουτοι ισραηλ
Romans 9:6 Not as though the word of God hath taken none effect. For they are not all Israel, which are of Israel:
Romans 9:7 ουδ οτι εισιν σπερμα αβρααμ παντες τεκνα αλλ εν ισαακ κληθησεται σοι σπερμα
Romans 9:7 Neither, because they are the seed of Abraham, are they all children: but, In Isaac shall thy seed be called.
Romans 9:8 τουτεστιν ου τα τεκνα της σαρκος ταυτα τεκνα του θεου αλλα τα τεκνα της επαγγελιας λογιζεται εις σπερμα
Romans 9:8 That is, They which are the children of the flesh, these are not the children of God: but the children of the promise are counted for the seed.
Romans 9:9 επαγγελιας γαρ ο λογος ουτος κατα τον καιρον τουτον ελευσομαι και εσται τη σαρρα υιος
Romans 9:9 For this is the word of promise, At this time will I come, and Sarah shall have a son.
Romans 9:10 ου μονον δε αλλα και ρεβεκκα εξ ενος κοιτην εχουσα ισαακ του πατρος ημων
Romans 9:10 And not only this; but when Rebecca also had conceived by one, even by our father Isaac;
Romans 9:11 μηπω γαρ γεννηθεντων μηδε πραξαντων τι αγαθον η κακον ινα η κατ εκλογην του θεου προθεσις μενη ουκ εξ εργων αλλ εκ του καλουντος
Romans 9:11 (For the children being not yet born, neither having done any good or evil, that the purpose of God according to election might stand, not of works, but of him that calleth;)
Romans 9:12 ερρηθη αυτη οτι ο μειζων δουλευσει τω ελασσονι
Romans 9:12 It was said unto her, The elder shall serve the younger.
Romans 9:13 καθως γεγραπται τον ιακωβ ηγαπησα τον δε ησαυ εμισησα
Romans 9:13 As it is written, Jacob have I loved, but Esau have I hated.
Romans 9:14 τι ουν ερουμεν μη αδικια παρα τω θεω μη γενοιτο
Romans 9:14 What shall we say then? Is there unrighteousness with God? God forbid.
Romans 9:15 τω γαρ μωση λεγει ελεησω ον αν ελεω και οικτειρησω ον αν οικτειρω
Romans 9:15 For he saith to Moses, I will have mercy on whom I will have mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I will have compassion.
Romans 9:16 αρα ουν ου του θελοντος ουδε του τρεχοντος αλλα του ελεουντος θεου
Romans 9:16 So then it is not of him that willeth, nor of him that runneth, but of God that sheweth mercy.
Romans 9:17 λεγει γαρ η γραφη τω φαραω οτι εις αυτο τουτο εξηγειρα σε οπως ενδειξωμαι εν σοι την δυναμιν μου και οπως διαγγελη το ονομα μου εν παση τη γη
Romans 9:17 For the scripture saith unto Pharaoh, Even for this same purpose have I raised thee up, that I might shew my power in thee, and that my name might be declared throughout all the earth.
Romans 9:18 αρα ουν ον θελει ελεει ον δε θελει σκληρυνει
Romans 9:18 Therefore hath he mercy on whom he will have mercy, and whom he will he hardeneth.
Romans 9:19 ερεις ουν μοι τι ετι μεμφεται τω γαρ βουληματι αυτου τις ανθεστηκεν
Romans 9:19 Thou wilt say then unto me, Why doth he yet find fault? For who hath resisted his will?
Romans 9:20 μενουνγε ω ανθρωπε συ τις ει ο ανταποκρινομενος τω θεω μη ερει το πλασμα τω πλασαντι τι με εποιησας ουτως
Romans 9:20 Nay but, O man, who art thou that repliest against God? Shall the thing formed say to him that formed it, Why hast thou made me thus?
Romans 9:21 η ουκ εχει εξουσιαν ο κεραμευς του πηλου εκ του αυτου φυραματος ποιησαι ο μεν εις τιμην σκευος ο δε εις ατιμιαν
Romans 9:21 Hath not the potter power over the clay, of the same lump to make one vessel unto honour, and another unto dishonour?
Romans 9:22 ει δε θελων ο θεος ενδειξασθαι την οργην και γνωρισαι το δυνατον αυτου ηνεγκεν εν πολλη μακροθυμια σκευη οργης κατηρτισμενα εις απωλειαν
Romans 9:22 What if God, willing to shew his wrath, and to make his power known, endured with much longsuffering the vessels of wrath fitted to destruction:
Romans 9:23 και ινα γνωριση τον πλουτον της δοξης αυτου επι σκευη ελεους α προητοιμασεν εις δοξαν
Romans 9:23 And that he might make known the riches of his glory on the vessels of mercy, which he had afore prepared unto glory,
Romans 9:24 ους και εκαλεσεν ημας ου μονον εξ ιουδαιων αλλα και εξ εθνων
Romans 9:24 Even us, whom he hath called, not of the Jews only, but also of the Gentiles?
Romans 9:25 ως και εν τω ωσηε λεγει καλεσω τον ου λαον μου λαον μου και την ουκ ηγαπημενην ηγαπημενην
Romans 9:25 As he saith also in Osee, I will call them my people, which were not my people; and her beloved, which was not beloved.
Romans 9:26 και εσται εν τω τοπω ου ερρηθη αυτοις ου λαος μου υμεις εκει κληθησονται υιοι θεου ζωντος
Romans 9:26 And it shall come to pass, that in the place where it was said unto them, Ye are not my people; there shall they be called the children of the living God.
Romans 9:27 ησαιας δε κραζει υπερ του ισραηλ εαν η ο αριθμος των υιων ισραηλ ως η αμμος της θαλασσης το καταλειμμα σωθησεται
Romans 9:27 Esaias also crieth concerning Israel, Though the number of the children of Israel be as the sand of the sea, a remnant shall be saved:
Romans 9:28 λογον γαρ συντελων και συντεμνων εν δικαιοσυνη οτι λογον συντετμημενον ποιησει κυριος επι της γης
Romans 9:28 For he will finish the work, and cut it short in righteousness: because a short work will the Lord make upon the earth.
Romans 9:29 και καθως προειρηκεν ησαιας ει μη κυριος σαβαωθ εγκατελιπεν ημιν σπερμα ως σοδομα αν εγενηθημεν και ως γομορρα αν ωμοιωθημεν
Romans 9:29 And as Esaias said before, Except the Lord of Sabaoth had left us a seed, we had been as Sodoma, and been made like unto Gomorrha.
Romans 9:30 τι ουν ερουμεν οτι εθνη τα μη διωκοντα δικαιοσυνην κατελαβεν δικαιοσυνην δικαιοσυνην δε την εκ πιστεως
Romans 9:30 What shall we say then? That the Gentiles, which followed not after righteousness, have attained to righteousness, even the righteousness which is of faith.
Romans 9:31 ισραηλ δε διωκων νομον δικαιοσυνης εις νομον δικαιοσυνης ουκ εφθασεν
Romans 9:31 But Israel, which followed after the law of righteousness, hath not attained to the law of righteousness.
Romans 9:32 διατι οτι ουκ εκ πιστεως αλλ ως εξ εργων νομου προσεκοψαν γαρ τω λιθω του προσκομματος
Romans 9:32 Wherefore? Because they sought it not by faith, but as it were by the works of the law. For they stumbled at that stumblingstone;
Romans 9:33 καθως γεγραπται ιδου τιθημι εν σιων λιθον προσκομματος και πετραν σκανδαλου και πας ο πιστευων επ αυτω ου καταισχυνθησεται
Romans 9:33 As it is written, Behold, I lay in Sion a stumblingstone and rock of offence: and whosoever believeth on him shall not be ashamed.
Romans 10:1 αδελφοι η μεν ευδοκια της εμης καρδιας και η δεησις η προς τον θεον υπερ του ισραηλ εστιν εις σωτηριαν
Romans 10:1 Brethren, my heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel is, that they might be saved.
Romans 10:2 μαρτυρω γαρ αυτοις οτι ζηλον θεου εχουσιν αλλ ου κατ επιγνωσιν
Romans 10:2 For I bear them record that they have a zeal of God, but not according to knowledge.
Romans 10:3 αγνοουντες γαρ την του θεου δικαιοσυνην και την ιδιαν δικαιοσυνην ζητουντες στησαι τη δικαιοσυνη του θεου ουχ υπεταγησαν
Romans 10:3 For they being ignorant of God's righteousness, and going about to establish their own righteousness, have not submitted themselves unto the righteousness of God.
Romans 10:4 τελος γαρ νομου χριστος εις δικαιοσυνην παντι τω πιστευοντι
Romans 10:4 For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to every one that believeth.
Romans 10:5 μωσης γαρ γραφει την δικαιοσυνην την εκ του νομου οτι ο ποιησας αυτα ανθρωπος ζησεται εν αυτοις
Romans 10:5 For Moses describeth the righteousness which is of the law, That the man which doeth those things shall live by them.
Romans 10:6 η δε εκ πιστεως δικαιοσυνη ουτως λεγει μη ειπης εν τη καρδια σου τις αναβησεται εις τον ουρανον τουτ εστιν χριστον καταγαγειν
Romans 10:6 But the righteousness which is of faith speaketh on this wise, Say not in thine heart, Who shall ascend into heaven? (that is, to bring Christ down from above:)
Romans 10:7 η τις καταβησεται εις την αβυσσον τουτ εστιν χριστον εκ νεκρων αναγαγειν
Romans 10:7 Or, Who shall descend into the deep? (that is, to bring up Christ again from the dead.)
Romans 10:8 αλλα τι λεγει εγγυς σου το ρημα εστιν εν τω στοματι σου και εν τη καρδια σου τουτ εστιν το ρημα της πιστεως ο κηρυσσομεν
Romans 10:8 But what saith it? The word is nigh thee, even in thy mouth, and in thy heart: that is, the word of faith, which we preach;
Romans 10:9 οτι εαν ομολογησης εν τω στοματι σου κυριον ιησουν και πιστευσης εν τη καρδια σου οτι ο θεος αυτον ηγειρεν εκ νεκρων σωθηση
Romans 10:9 That if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and shalt believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved.
Romans 10:10 καρδια γαρ πιστευεται εις δικαιοσυνην στοματι δε ομολογειται εις σωτηριαν
Romans 10:10 For with the heart man believeth unto righteousness; and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation.
Romans 10:11 λεγει γαρ η γραφη πας ο πιστευων επ αυτω ου καταισχυνθησεται
Romans 10:11 For the scripture saith, Whosoever believeth on him shall not be ashamed.
Romans 10:12 ου γαρ εστιν διαστολη ιουδαιου τε και ελληνος ο γαρ αυτος κυριος παντων πλουτων εις παντας τους επικαλουμενους αυτον
Romans 10:12 For there is no difference between the Jew and the Greek: for the same Lord over all is rich unto all that call upon him.
Romans 10:13 πας γαρ ος αν επικαλεσηται το ονομα κυριου σωθησεται
Romans 10:13 For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved.
Romans 10:14 πως ουν επικαλεσονται εις ον ουκ επιστευσαν πως δε πιστευσουσιν ου ουκ ηκουσαν πως δε ακουσουσιν χωρις κηρυσσοντος
Romans 10:14 How then shall they call on him in whom they have not believed? and how shall they believe in him of whom they have not heard? and how shall they hear without a preacher?
Romans 10:15 πως δε κηρυξουσιν εαν μη αποσταλωσιν καθως γεγραπται ως ωραιοι οι ποδες των ευαγγελιζομενων ειρηνην των ευαγγελιζομενων τα αγαθα
Romans 10:15 And how shall they preach, except they be sent? as it is written, How beautiful are the feet of them that preach the gospel of peace, and bring glad tidings of good things!
Romans 10:16 αλλ ου παντες υπηκουσαν τω ευαγγελιω ησαιας γαρ λεγει κυριε τις επιστευσεν τη ακοη ημων
Romans 10:16 But they have not all obeyed the gospel. For Esaias saith, Lord, who hath believed our report?
Romans 10:17 αρα η πιστις εξ ακοης η δε ακοη δια ρηματος θεου
Romans 10:17 So then faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God.
Romans 10:18 αλλα λεγω μη ουκ ηκουσαν μενουνγε εις πασαν την γην εξηλθεν ο φθογγος αυτων και εις τα περατα της οικουμενης τα ρηματα αυτων
Romans 10:18 But I say, Have they not heard? Yes verily, their sound went into all the earth, and their words unto the ends of the world.
Romans 10:19 αλλα λεγω μη ουκ εγνω ισραηλ πρωτος μωσης λεγει εγω παραζηλωσω υμας επ ουκ εθνει επι εθνει ασυνετω παροργιω υμας
Romans 10:19 But I say, Did not Israel know? First Moses saith, I will provoke you to jealousy by them that are no people, and by a foolish nation I will anger you.
Romans 10:20 ησαιας δε αποτολμα και λεγει ευρεθην τοις εμε μη ζητουσιν εμφανης εγενομην τοις εμε μη επερωτωσιν
Romans 10:20 But Esaias is very bold, and saith, I was found of them that sought me not; I was made manifest unto them that asked not after me.
Romans 10:21 προς δε τον ισραηλ λεγει ολην την ημεραν εξεπετασα τας χειρας μου προς λαον απειθουντα και αντιλεγοντα
Romans 10:21 But to Israel he saith, All day long I have stretched forth my hands unto a disobedient and gainsaying people.
Romans 11:1 λεγω ουν μη απωσατο ο θεος τον λαον αυτου μη γενοιτο και γαρ εγω ισραηλιτης ειμι εκ σπερματος αβρααμ φυλης βενιαμιν
Romans 11:1 I say then, Hath God cast away his people? God forbid. For I also am an Israelite, of the seed of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin.
Romans 11:2 ουκ απωσατο ο θεος τον λαον αυτου ον προεγνω η ουκ οιδατε εν ηλια τι λεγει η γραφη ως εντυγχανει τω θεω κατα του ισραηλ λεγων
Romans 11:2 God hath not cast away his people which he foreknew. Wot ye not what the scripture saith of Elias? how he maketh intercession to God against Israel saying,
Romans 11:3 κυριε τους προφητας σου απεκτειναν και τα θυσιαστηρια σου κατεσκαψαν καγω υπελειφθην μονος και ζητουσιν την ψυχην μου
Romans 11:3 Lord, they have killed thy prophets, and digged down thine altars; and I am left alone, and they seek my life.
Romans 11:4 αλλα τι λεγει αυτω ο χρηματισμος κατελιπον εμαυτω επτακισχιλιους ανδρας οιτινες ουκ εκαμψαν γονυ τη βααλ
Romans 11:4 But what saith the answer of God unto him? I have reserved to myself seven thousand men, who have not bowed the knee to the image of Baal.
Romans 11:5 ουτως ουν και εν τω νυν καιρω λειμμα κατ εκλογην χαριτος γεγονεν
Romans 11:5 Even so then at this present time also there is a remnant according to the election of grace.
Romans 11:6 ει δε χαριτι ουκετι εξ εργων επει η χαρις ουκετι γινεται χαρις ει δε εξ εργων ουκετι εστιν χαρις επει το εργον ουκετι εστιν εργον
Romans 11:6 And if by grace, then is it no more of works: otherwise grace is no more grace. But if it be of works, then it is no more grace: otherwise work is no more work.
Romans 11:7 τι ουν ο επιζητει ισραηλ τουτου ουκ επετυχεν η δε εκλογη επετυχεν οι δε λοιποι επωρωθησαν
Romans 11:7 What then? Israel hath not obtained that which he seeketh for; but the election hath obtained it, and the rest were blinded.
Romans 11:8 καθως γεγραπται εδωκεν αυτοις ο θεος πνευμα κατανυξεως οφθαλμους του μη βλεπειν και ωτα του μη ακουειν εως της σημερον ημερας
Romans 11:8 (According as it is written, God hath given them the spirit of slumber, eyes that they should not see, and ears that they should not hear;) unto this day.
Romans 11:9 και δαβιδ λεγει γενηθητω η τραπεζα αυτων εις παγιδα και εις θηραν και εις σκανδαλον και εις ανταποδομα αυτοις
Romans 11:9 And David saith, Let their table be made a snare, and a trap, and a stumblingblock, and a recompence unto them:
Romans 11:10 σκοτισθητωσαν οι οφθαλμοι αυτων του μη βλεπειν και τον νωτον αυτων διαπαντος συγκαμψον
Romans 11:10 Let their eyes be darkened, that they may not see, and bow down their back alway.
Romans 11:11 λεγω ουν μη επταισαν ινα πεσωσιν μη γενοιτο αλλα τω αυτων παραπτωματι η σωτηρια τοις εθνεσιν εις το παραζηλωσαι αυτους
Romans 11:11 I say then, Have they stumbled that they should fall? God forbid: but rather through their fall salvation is come unto the Gentiles, for to provoke them to jealousy.
Romans 11:12 ει δε το παραπτωμα αυτων πλουτος κοσμου και το ηττημα αυτων πλουτος εθνων ποσω μαλλον το πληρωμα αυτων
Romans 11:12 Now if the fall of them be the riches of the world, and the diminishing of them the riches of the Gentiles; how much more their fulness?
Romans 11:13 υμιν γαρ λεγω τοις εθνεσιν εφ οσον μεν ειμι εγω εθνων αποστολος την διακονιαν μου δοξαζω
Romans 11:13 For I speak to you Gentiles, inasmuch as I am the apostle of the Gentiles, I magnify mine office:
Romans 11:14 ει πως παραζηλωσω μου την σαρκα και σωσω τινας εξ αυτων
Romans 11:14 If by any means I may provoke to emulation them which are my flesh, and might save some of them.
Romans 11:15 ει γαρ η αποβολη αυτων καταλλαγη κοσμου τις η προσληψις ει μη ζωη εκ νεκρων
Romans 11:15 For if the casting away of them be the reconciling of the world, what shall the receiving of them be, but life from the dead?
Romans 11:16 ει δε η απαρχη αγια και το φυραμα και ει η ριζα αγια και οι κλαδοι
Romans 11:16 For if the firstfruit be holy, the lump is also holy: and if the root be holy, so are the branches.
Romans 11:17 ει δε τινες των κλαδων εξεκλασθησαν συ δε αγριελαιος ων ενεκεντρισθης εν αυτοις και συγκοινωνος της ριζης και της πιοτητος της ελαιας εγενου
Romans 11:17 And if some of the branches be broken off, and thou, being a wild olive tree, wert graffed in among them, and with them partakest of the root and fatness of the olive tree;
Romans 11:18 μη κατακαυχω των κλαδων ει δε κατακαυχασαι ου συ την ριζαν βασταζεις αλλ η ριζα σε
Romans 11:18 Boast not against the branches. But if thou boast, thou bearest not the root, but the root thee.
Romans 11:19 ερεις ουν εξεκλασθησαν οι κλαδοι ινα εγω εγκεντρισθω
Romans 11:19 Thou wilt say then, The branches were broken off, that I might be graffed in.
Romans 11:20 καλως τη απιστια εξεκλασθησαν συ δε τη πιστει εστηκας μη υψηλοφρονει αλλα φοβου
Romans 11:20 Well; because of unbelief they were broken off, and thou standest by faith. Be not highminded, but fear:
Romans 11:21 ει γαρ ο θεος των κατα φυσιν κλαδων ουκ εφεισατο μηπως ουδε σου φεισηται
Romans 11:21 For if God spared not the natural branches, take heed lest he also spare not thee.
Romans 11:22 ιδε ουν χρηστοτητα και αποτομιαν θεου επι μεν τους πεσοντας αποτομιαν επι δε σε χρηστοτητα εαν επιμεινης τη χρηστοτητι επει και συ εκκοπηση
Romans 11:22 Behold therefore the goodness and severity of God: on them which fell, severity; but toward thee, goodness, if thou continue in his goodness: otherwise thou also shalt be cut off.
Romans 11:23 και εκεινοι δε εαν μη επιμεινωσιν τη απιστια εγκεντρισθησονται δυνατος γαρ εστιν ο θεος παλιν εγκεντρισαι αυτους
Romans 11:23 And they also, if they abide not still in unbelief, shall be graffed in: for God is able to graff them in again.
Romans 11:24 ει γαρ συ εκ της κατα φυσιν εξεκοπης αγριελαιου και παρα φυσιν ενεκεντρισθης εις καλλιελαιον ποσω μαλλον ουτοι οι κατα φυσιν εγκεντρισθησονται τη ιδια ελαια
Romans 11:24 For if thou wert cut out of the olive tree which is wild by nature, and wert graffed contrary to nature into a good olive tree: how much more shall these, which be the natural branches, be graffed into their own olive tree?
Romans 11:25 ου γαρ θελω υμας αγνοειν αδελφοι το μυστηριον τουτο ινα μη ητε παρ εαυτοις φρονιμοι οτι πωρωσις απο μερους τω ισραηλ γεγονεν αχρις ου το πληρωμα των εθνων εισελθη
Romans 11:25 For I would not, brethren, that ye should be ignorant of this mystery, lest ye should be wise in your own conceits; that blindness in part is happened to Israel, until the fulness of the Gentiles be come in.
Romans 11:26 και ουτως πας ισραηλ σωθησεται καθως γεγραπται ηξει εκ σιων ο ρυομενος και αποστρεψει ασεβειας απο ιακωβ
Romans 11:26 And so all Israel shall be saved: as it is written, There shall come out of Sion the Deliverer, and shall turn away ungodliness from Jacob:
Romans 11:27 και αυτη αυτοις η παρ εμου διαθηκη οταν αφελωμαι τας αμαρτιας αυτων
Romans 11:27 For this is my covenant unto them, when I shall take away their sins.
Romans 11:28 κατα μεν το ευαγγελιον εχθροι δι υμας κατα δε την εκλογην αγαπητοι δια τους πατερας
Romans 11:28 As concerning the gospel, they are enemies for your sakes: but as touching the election, they are beloved for the father's sakes.
Romans 11:29 αμεταμελητα γαρ τα χαρισματα και η κλησις του θεου
Romans 11:29 For the gifts and calling of God are without repentance.
Romans 11:30 ωσπερ γαρ και υμεις ποτε ηπειθησατε τω θεω νυν δε ηλεηθητε τη τουτων απειθεια
Romans 11:30 For as ye in times past have not believed God, yet have now obtained mercy through their unbelief:
Romans 11:31 ουτως και ουτοι νυν ηπειθησαν τω υμετερω ελεει ινα και αυτοι ελεηθωσιν
Romans 11:31 Even so have these also now not believed, that through your mercy they also may obtain mercy.
Romans 11:32 συνεκλεισεν γαρ ο θεος τους παντας εις απειθειαν ινα τους παντας ελεηση
Romans 11:32 For God hath concluded them all in unbelief, that he might have mercy upon all.
Romans 11:33 ω βαθος πλουτου και σοφιας και γνωσεως θεου ως ανεξερευνητα τα κριματα αυτου και ανεξιχνιαστοι αι οδοι αυτου
Romans 11:33 O the depth of the riches both of the wisdom and knowledge of God! how unsearchable are his judgments, and his ways past finding out!
Romans 11:34 τις γαρ εγνω νουν κυριου η τις συμβουλος αυτου εγενετο
Romans 11:34 For who hath known the mind of the Lord? or who hath been his counsellor?
Romans 11:35 η τις προεδωκεν αυτω και ανταποδοθησεται αυτω
Romans 11:35 Or who hath first given to him, and it shall be recompensed unto him again?
Romans 11:36 οτι εξ αυτου και δι αυτου και εις αυτον τα παντα αυτω η δοξα εις τους αιωνας αμην
Romans 11:36 For of him, and through him, and to him, are all things: to whom be glory for ever. Amen.
Romans 12:1 παρακαλω ουν υμας αδελφοι δια των οικτιρμων του θεου παραστησαι τα σωματα υμων θυσιαν ζωσαν αγιαν ευαρεστον τω θεω την λογικην λατρειαν υμων
Romans 12:1 I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service.
Romans 12:2 και μη συσχηματιζεσθε τω αιωνι τουτω αλλα μεταμορφουσθε τη ανακαινωσει του νοος υμων εις το δοκιμαζειν υμας τι το θελημα του θεου το αγαθον και ευαρεστον και τελειον
Romans 12:2 And be not conformed to this world: but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind, that ye may prove what is that good, and acceptable, and perfect, will of God.
Romans 12:3 λεγω γαρ δια της χαριτος της δοθεισης μοι παντι τω οντι εν υμιν μη υπερφρονειν παρ ο δει φρονειν αλλα φρονειν εις το σωφρονειν εκαστω ως ο θεος εμερισεν μετρον πιστεως
Romans 12:3 For I say, through the grace given unto me, to every man that is among you, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think; but to think soberly, according as God hath dealt to every man the measure of faith.
Romans 12:4 καθαπερ γαρ εν ενι σωματι μελη πολλα εχομεν τα δε μελη παντα ου την αυτην εχει πραξιν
Romans 12:4 For as we have many members in one body, and all members have not the same office:
Romans 12:5 ουτως οι πολλοι εν σωμα εσμεν εν χριστω ο δε καθ εις αλληλων μελη
Romans 12:5 So we, being many, are one body in Christ, and every one members one of another.
Romans 12:6 εχοντες δε χαρισματα κατα την χαριν την δοθεισαν ημιν διαφορα ειτε προφητειαν κατα την αναλογιαν της πιστεως
Romans 12:6 Having then gifts differing according to the grace that is given to us, whether prophecy, let us prophesy according to the proportion of faith;
Romans 12:7 ειτε διακονιαν εν τη διακονια ειτε ο διδασκων εν τη διδασκαλια
Romans 12:7 Or ministry, let us wait on our ministering: or he that teacheth, on teaching;
Romans 12:8 ειτε ο παρακαλων εν τη παρακλησει ο μεταδιδους εν απλοτητι ο προισταμενος εν σπουδη ο ελεων εν ιλαροτητι
Romans 12:8 Or he that exhorteth, on exhortation: he that giveth, let him do it with simplicity; he that ruleth, with diligence; he that sheweth mercy, with cheerfulness.
Romans 12:9 η αγαπη ανυποκριτος αποστυγουντες το πονηρον κολλωμενοι τω αγαθω
Romans 12:9 Let love be without dissimulation. Abhor that which is evil; cleave to that which is good.
Romans 12:10 τη φιλαδελφια εις αλληλους φιλοστοργοι τη τιμη αλληλους προηγουμενοι
Romans 12:10 Be kindly affectioned one to another with brotherly love; in honour preferring one another;
Romans 12:11 τη σπουδη μη οκνηροι τω πνευματι ζεοντες τω καιρω δουλευοντες
Romans 12:11 Not slothful in business; fervent in spirit; serving the Lord;
Romans 12:12 τη ελπιδι χαιροντες τη θλιψει υπομενοντες τη προσευχη προσκαρτερουντες
Romans 12:12 Rejoicing in hope; patient in tribulation; continuing instant in prayer;
Romans 12:13 ταις χρειαις των αγιων κοινωνουντες την φιλοξενιαν διωκοντες
Romans 12:13 Distributing to the necessity of saints; given to hospitality.
Romans 12:14 ευλογειτε τους διωκοντας υμας ευλογειτε και μη καταρασθε
Romans 12:14 Bless them which persecute you: bless, and curse not.
Romans 12:15 χαιρειν μετα χαιροντων και κλαιειν μετα κλαιοντων
Romans 12:15 Rejoice with them that do rejoice, and weep with them that weep.
Romans 12:16 το αυτο εις αλληλους φρονουντες μη τα υψηλα φρονουντες αλλα τοις ταπεινοις συναπαγομενοι μη γινεσθε φρονιμοι παρ εαυτοις
Romans 12:16 Be of the same mind one toward another. Mind not high things, but condescend to men of low estate. Be not wise in your own conceits.
Romans 12:17 μηδενι κακον αντι κακου αποδιδοντες προνοουμενοι καλα ενωπιον παντων ανθρωπων
Romans 12:17 Recompense to no man evil for evil. Provide things honest in the sight of all men.
Romans 12:18 ει δυνατον το εξ υμων μετα παντων ανθρωπων ειρηνευοντες
Romans 12:18 If it be possible, as much as lieth in you, live peaceably with all men.
Romans 12:19 μη εαυτους εκδικουντες αγαπητοι αλλα δοτε τοπον τη οργη γεγραπται γαρ εμοι εκδικησις εγω ανταποδωσω λεγει κυριος
Romans 12:19 Dearly beloved, avenge not yourselves, but rather give place unto wrath: for it is written, Vengeance is mine; I will repay, saith the Lord.
Romans 12:20 εαν ουν πεινα ο εχθρος σου ψωμιζε αυτον εαν διψα ποτιζε αυτον τουτο γαρ ποιων ανθρακας πυρος σωρευσεις επι την κεφαλην αυτου
Romans 12:20 Therefore if thine enemy hunger, feed him; if he thirst, give him drink: for in so doing thou shalt heap coals of fire on his head.
Romans 12:21 μη νικω υπο του κακου αλλα νικα εν τω αγαθω το κακον
Romans 12:21 Be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with good.
Romans 13:1 πασα ψυχη εξουσιαις υπερεχουσαις υποτασσεσθω ου γαρ εστιν εξουσια ει μη απο θεου αι δε ουσαι εξουσιαι υπο του θεου τεταγμεναι εισιν
Romans 13:1 Let every soul be subject unto the higher powers. For there is no power but of God: the powers that be are ordained of God.
Romans 13:2 ωστε ο αντιτασσομενος τη εξουσια τη του θεου διαταγη ανθεστηκεν οι δε ανθεστηκοτες εαυτοις κριμα ληψονται
Romans 13:2 Whosoever therefore resisteth the power, resisteth the ordinance of God: and they that resist shall receive to themselves damnation.
Romans 13:3 οι γαρ αρχοντες ουκ εισιν φοβος των αγαθων εργων αλλα των κακων θελεις δε μη φοβεισθαι την εξουσιαν το αγαθον ποιει και εξεις επαινον εξ αυτης
Romans 13:3 For rulers are not a terror to good works, but to the evil.  Wilt thou then not be afraid of the power? do that which is good, and thou shalt have praise of the same:
Romans 13:4 θεου γαρ διακονος εστιν σοι εις το αγαθον εαν δε το κακον ποιης φοβου ου γαρ εικη την μαχαιραν φορει θεου γαρ διακονος εστιν εκδικος εις οργην τω το κακον πρασσοντι
Romans 13:4 For he is the minister of God to thee for good. But if thou do that which is evil, be afraid; for he beareth not the sword in vain: for he is the minister of God, a revenger to execute wrath upon him that doeth evil.
Romans 13:5 διο αναγκη υποτασσεσθαι ου μονον δια την οργην αλλα και δια την συνειδησιν
Romans 13:5 Wherefore ye must needs be subject, not only for wrath, but also for conscience sake.
Romans 13:6 δια τουτο γαρ και φορους τελειτε λειτουργοι γαρ θεου εισιν εις αυτο τουτο προσκαρτερουντες
Romans 13:6 For for this cause pay ye tribute also: for they are God's ministers, attending continually upon this very thing.
Romans 13:7 αποδοτε ουν πασιν τας οφειλας τω τον φορον τον φορον τω το τελος το τελος τω τον φοβον τον φοβον τω την τιμην την τιμην
Romans 13:7 Render therefore to all their dues: tribute to whom tribute is due; custom to whom custom; fear to whom fear; honour to whom honour.
Romans 13:8 μηδενι μηδεν οφειλετε ει μη το αγαπαν αλληλους ο γαρ αγαπων τον ετερον νομον πεπληρωκεν
Romans 13:8 Owe no man any thing, but to love one another: for he that loveth another hath fulfilled the law.
Romans 13:9 το γαρ ου μοιχευσεις ου φονευσεις ου κλεψεις ου ψευδομαρτυρησεις ουκ επιθυμησεις και ει τις ετερα εντολη εν τουτω τω λογω ανακεφαλαιουται εν τω αγαπησεις τον πλησιον σου ως εαυτον
Romans 13:9 For this, Thou shalt not commit adultery, Thou shalt not kill, Thou shalt not steal, Thou shalt not bear false witness, Thou shalt not covet; and if there be any other commandment, it is briefly comprehended in this saying, namely, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.
Romans 13:10 η αγαπη τω πλησιον κακον ουκ εργαζεται πληρωμα ουν νομου η αγαπη
Romans 13:10 Love worketh no ill to his neighbour: therefore love is the fulfilling of the law.
Romans 13:11 και τουτο ειδοτες τον καιρον οτι ωρα ημας ηδη εξ υπνου εγερθηναι νυν γαρ εγγυτερον ημων η σωτηρια η οτε επιστευσαμεν
Romans 13:11 And that, knowing the time, that now it is high time to awake out of sleep: for now is our salvation nearer than when we believed.
Romans 13:12 η νυξ προεκοψεν η δε ημερα ηγγικεν αποθωμεθα ουν τα εργα του σκοτους και ενδυσωμεθα τα οπλα του φωτος
Romans 13:12 The night is far spent, the day is at hand: let us therefore cast off the works of darkness, and let us put on the armour of light.
Romans 13:13 ως εν ημερα ευσχημονως περιπατησωμεν μη κωμοις και μεθαις μη κοιταις και ασελγειαις μη εριδι και ζηλω
Romans 13:13 Let us walk honestly, as in the day; not in rioting and drunkenness, not in chambering and wantonness, not in strife and envying.
Romans 13:14 αλλ ενδυσασθε τον κυριον ιησουν χριστον και της σαρκος προνοιαν μη ποιεισθε εις επιθυμιας
Romans 13:14 But put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make not provision for the flesh, to fulfil the lusts thereof.
Romans 14:1 τον δε ασθενουντα τη πιστει προσλαμβανεσθε μη εις διακρισεις διαλογισμων
Romans 14:1 Him that is weak in the faith receive ye, but not to doubtful disputations.
Romans 14:2 ος μεν πιστευει φαγειν παντα ο δε ασθενων λαχανα εσθιει
Romans 14:2 For one believeth that he may eat all things: another, who is weak, eateth herbs.
Romans 14:3 ο εσθιων τον μη εσθιοντα μη εξουθενειτω και ο μη εσθιων τον εσθιοντα μη κρινετω ο θεος γαρ αυτον προσελαβετο
Romans 14:3 Let not him that eateth despise him that eateth not; and let not him which eateth not judge him that eateth: for God hath received him.
Romans 14:4 συ τις ει ο κρινων αλλοτριον οικετην τω ιδιω κυριω στηκει η πιπτει σταθησεται δε δυνατος γαρ εστιν ο θεος στησαι αυτον
Romans 14:4 Who art thou that judgest another man's servant? to his own master he standeth or falleth. Yea, he shall be holden up: for God is able to make him stand.
Romans 14:5 ος μεν κρινει ημεραν παρ ημεραν ος δε κρινει πασαν ημεραν εκαστος εν τω ιδιω νοι πληροφορεισθω
Romans 14:5 One man esteemeth one day above another: another esteemeth every day alike. Let every man be fully persuaded in his own mind.
Romans 14:6 ο φρονων την ημεραν κυριω φρονει και ο μη φρονων την ημεραν κυριω ου φρονει ο εσθιων κυριω εσθιει ευχαριστει γαρ τω θεω και ο μη εσθιων κυριω ουκ εσθιει και ευχαριστει τω θεω
Romans 14:6 He that regardeth the day, regardeth it unto the Lord; and he that regardeth not the day, to the Lord he doth not regard it.  He that eateth, eateth to the Lord, for he giveth God thanks; and he that eateth not, to the Lord he eateth not, and giveth God thanks.
Romans 14:7 ουδεις γαρ ημων εαυτω ζη και ουδεις εαυτω αποθνησκει
Romans 14:7 For none of us liveth to himself, and no man dieth to himself.
Romans 14:8 εαν τε γαρ ζωμεν τω κυριω ζωμεν εαν τε αποθνησκωμεν τω κυριω αποθνησκομεν εαν τε ουν ζωμεν εαν τε αποθνησκωμεν του κυριου εσμεν
Romans 14:8 For whether we live, we live unto the Lord; and whether we die, we die unto the Lord: whether we live therefore, or die, we are the Lord's.
Romans 14:9 εις τουτο γαρ χριστος και απεθανεν και ανεστη και ανεζησεν ινα και νεκρων και ζωντων κυριευση
Romans 14:9 For to this end Christ both died, and rose, and revived, that he might be Lord both of the dead and living.
Romans 14:10 συ δε τι κρινεις τον αδελφον σου η και συ τι εξουθενεις τον αδελφον σου παντες γαρ παραστησομεθα τω βηματι του χριστου
Romans 14:10 But why dost thou judge thy brother? or why dost thou set at nought thy brother? for we shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ.
Romans 14:11 γεγραπται γαρ ζω εγω λεγει κυριος οτι εμοι καμψει παν γονυ και πασα γλωσσα εξομολογησεται τω θεω
Romans 14:11 For it is written, As I live, saith the Lord, every knee shall bow to me, and every tongue shall confess to God.
Romans 14:12 αρα ουν εκαστος ημων περι εαυτου λογον δωσει τω θεω
Romans 14:12 So then every one of us shall give account of himself to God.
Romans 14:13 μηκετι ουν αλληλους κρινωμεν αλλα τουτο κρινατε μαλλον το μη τιθεναι προσκομμα τω αδελφω η σκανδαλον
Romans 14:13 Let us not therefore judge one another any more: but judge this rather, that no man put a stumblingblock or an occasion to fall in his brother's way.
Romans 14:14 οιδα και πεπεισμαι εν κυριω ιησου οτι ουδεν κοινον δι εαυτου ει μη τω λογιζομενω τι κοινον ειναι εκεινω κοινον
Romans 14:14 I know, and am persuaded by the Lord Jesus, that there is nothing unclean of itself: but to him that esteemeth any thing to be unclean, to him it is unclean.
Romans 14:15 ει δε δια βρωμα ο αδελφος σου λυπειται ουκετι κατα αγαπην περιπατεις μη τω βρωματι σου εκεινον απολλυε υπερ ου χριστος απεθανεν
Romans 14:15 But if thy brother be grieved with thy meat, now walkest thou not charitably. Destroy not him with thy meat, for whom Christ died.
Romans 14:16 μη βλασφημεισθω ουν υμων το αγαθον
Romans 14:16 Let not then your good be evil spoken of:
Romans 14:17 ου γαρ εστιν η βασιλεια του θεου βρωσις και ποσις αλλα δικαιοσυνη και ειρηνη και χαρα εν πνευματι αγιω
Romans 14:17 For the kingdom of God is not meat and drink; but righteousness, and peace, and joy in the Holy Ghost.
Romans 14:18 ο γαρ εν τουτοις δουλευων τω χριστω ευαρεστος τω θεω και δοκιμος τοις ανθρωποις
Romans 14:18 For he that in these things serveth Christ is acceptable to God, and approved of men.
Romans 14:19 αρα ουν τα της ειρηνης διωκωμεν και τα της οικοδομης της εις αλληλους
Romans 14:19 Let us therefore follow after the things which make for peace, and things wherewith one may edify another.
Romans 14:20 μη ενεκεν βρωματος καταλυε το εργον του θεου παντα μεν καθαρα αλλα κακον τω ανθρωπω τω δια προσκομματος εσθιοντι
Romans 14:20 For meat destroy not the work of God. All things indeed are pure; but it is evil for that man who eateth with offence.
Romans 14:21 καλον το μη φαγειν κρεα μηδε πιειν οινον μηδε εν ω ο αδελφος σου προσκοπτει η σκανδαλιζεται η ασθενει
Romans 14:21 It is good neither to eat flesh, nor to drink wine, nor any thing whereby thy brother stumbleth, or is offended, or is made weak.
Romans 14:22 συ πιστιν εχεις κατα σαυτον εχε ενωπιον του θεου μακαριος ο μη κρινων εαυτον εν ω δοκιμαζει
Romans 14:22 Hast thou faith? have it to thyself before God. Happy is he that condemneth not himself in that thing which he alloweth.
Romans 14:23 ο δε διακρινομενος εαν φαγη κατακεκριται οτι ουκ εκ πιστεως παν δε ο ουκ εκ πιστεως αμαρτια εστιν
Romans 14:23 And he that doubteth is damned if he eat, because he eateth not of faith: for whatsoever is not of faith is sin.
Romans 15:1 οφειλομεν δε ημεις οι δυνατοι τα ασθενηματα των αδυνατων βασταζειν και μη εαυτοις αρεσκειν
Romans 15:1 We then that are strong ought to bear the infirmities of the weak, and not to please ourselves.
Romans 15:2 εκαστος γαρ ημων τω πλησιον αρεσκετω εις το αγαθον προς οικοδομην
Romans 15:2 Let every one of us please his neighbour for his good to edification.
Romans 15:3 και γαρ ο χριστος ουχ εαυτω ηρεσεν αλλα καθως γεγραπται οι ονειδισμοι των ονειδιζοντων σε επεπεσον επ εμε
Romans 15:3 For even Christ pleased not himself; but, as it is written, The reproaches of them that reproached thee fell on me.
Romans 15:4 οσα γαρ προεγραφη εις την ημετεραν διδασκαλιαν προεγραφη ινα δια της υπομονης και της παρακλησεως των γραφων την ελπιδα εχωμεν
Romans 15:4 For whatsoever things were written aforetime were written for our learning, that we through patience and comfort of the scriptures might have hope.
Romans 15:5 ο δε θεος της υπομονης και της παρακλησεως δωη υμιν το αυτο φρονειν εν αλληλοις κατα χριστον ιησουν
Romans 15:5 Now the God of patience and consolation grant you to be likeminded one toward another according to Christ Jesus:
Romans 15:6 ινα ομοθυμαδον εν ενι στοματι δοξαζητε τον θεον και πατερα του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου
Romans 15:6 That ye may with one mind and one mouth glorify God, even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Romans 15:7 διο προσλαμβανεσθε αλληλους καθως και ο χριστος προσελαβετο ημας εις δοξαν θεου
Romans 15:7 Wherefore receive ye one another, as Christ also received us to the glory of God.
Romans 15:8 λεγω δε ιησουν χριστον διακονον γεγενησθαι περιτομης υπερ αληθειας θεου εις το βεβαιωσαι τας επαγγελιας των πατερων
Romans 15:8 Now I say that Jesus Christ was a minister of the circumcision for the truth of God, to confirm the promises made unto the fathers:
Romans 15:9 τα δε εθνη υπερ ελεους δοξασαι τον θεον καθως γεγραπται δια τουτο εξομολογησομαι σοι εν εθνεσιν και τω ονοματι σου ψαλω
Romans 15:9 And that the Gentiles might glorify God for his mercy; as it is written, For this cause I will confess to thee among the Gentiles, and sing unto thy name.
Romans 15:10 και παλιν λεγει ευφρανθητε εθνη μετα του λαου αυτου
Romans 15:10 And again he saith, Rejoice, ye Gentiles, with his people.
Romans 15:11 και παλιν αινειτε τον κυριον παντα τα εθνη και επαινεσατε αυτον παντες οι λαοι
Romans 15:11 And again, Praise the Lord, all ye Gentiles; and laud him, all ye people.
Romans 15:12 και παλιν ησαιας λεγει εσται η ριζα του ιεσσαι και ο ανισταμενος αρχειν εθνων επ αυτω εθνη ελπιουσιν
Romans 15:12 And again, Esaias saith, There shall be a root of Jesse, and he that shall rise to reign over the Gentiles; in him shall the Gentiles trust.
Romans 15:13 ο δε θεος της ελπιδος πληρωσαι υμας πασης χαρας και ειρηνης εν τω πιστευειν εις το περισσευειν υμας εν τη ελπιδι εν δυναμει πνευματος αγιου
Romans 15:13 Now the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, that ye may abound in hope, through the power of the Holy Ghost.
Romans 15:14 πεπεισμαι δε αδελφοι μου και αυτος εγω περι υμων οτι και αυτοι μεστοι εστε αγαθωσυνης πεπληρωμενοι πασης γνωσεως δυναμενοι και αλληλους νουθετειν
Romans 15:14 And I myself also am persuaded of you, my brethren, that ye also are full of goodness, filled with all knowledge, able also to admonish one another.
Romans 15:15 τολμηροτερον δε εγραψα υμιν αδελφοι απο μερους ως επαναμιμνησκων υμας δια την χαριν την δοθεισαν μοι υπο του θεου
Romans 15:15 Nevertheless, brethren, I have written the more boldly unto you in some sort, as putting you in mind, because of the grace that is given to me of God,
Romans 15:16 εις το ειναι με λειτουργον ιησου χριστου εις τα εθνη ιερουργουντα το ευαγγελιον του θεου ινα γενηται η προσφορα των εθνων ευπροσδεκτος ηγιασμενη εν πνευματι αγιω
Romans 15:16 That I should be the minister of Jesus Christ to the Gentiles, ministering the gospel of God, that the offering up of the Gentiles might be acceptable, being sanctified by the Holy Ghost.
Romans 15:17 εχω ουν καυχησιν εν χριστω ιησου τα προς θεον
Romans 15:17 I have therefore whereof I may glory through Jesus Christ in those things which pertain to God.
Romans 15:18 ου γαρ τολμησω λαλειν τι ων ου κατειργασατο χριστος δι εμου εις υπακοην εθνων λογω και εργω
Romans 15:18 For I will not dare to speak of any of those things which Christ hath not wrought by me, to make the Gentiles obedient, by word and deed,
Romans 15:19 εν δυναμει σημειων και τερατων εν δυναμει πνευματος θεου ωστε με απο ιερουσαλημ και κυκλω μεχρι του ιλλυρικου πεπληρωκεναι το ευαγγελιον του χριστου
Romans 15:19 Through mighty signs and wonders, by the power of the Spirit of God; so that from Jerusalem, and round about unto Illyricum, I have fully preached the gospel of Christ.
Romans 15:20 ουτως δε φιλοτιμουμενον ευαγγελιζεσθαι ουχ οπου ωνομασθη χριστος ινα μη επ αλλοτριον θεμελιον οικοδομω
Romans 15:20 Yea, so have I strived to preach the gospel, not where Christ was named, lest I should build upon another man's foundation:
Romans 15:21 αλλα καθως γεγραπται οις ουκ ανηγγελη περι αυτου οψονται και οι ουκ ακηκοασιν συνησουσιν
Romans 15:21 But as it is written, To whom he was not spoken of, they shall see: and they that have not heard shall understand.
Romans 15:22 διο και ενεκοπτομην τα πολλα του ελθειν προς υμας
Romans 15:22 For which cause also I have been much hindered from coming to you.
Romans 15:23 νυνι δε μηκετι τοπον εχων εν τοις κλιμασιν τουτοις επιποθιαν δε εχων του ελθειν προς υμας απο πολλων ετων
Romans 15:23 But now having no more place in these parts, and having a great desire these many years to come unto you;
Romans 15:24 ως εαν πορευωμαι εις την σπανιαν ελευσομαι προς υμας ελπιζω γαρ διαπορευομενος θεασασθαι υμας και υφ υμων προπεμφθηναι εκει εαν υμων πρωτον απο μερους εμπλησθω
Romans 15:24 Whensoever I take my journey into Spain, I will come to you: for I trust to see you in my journey, and to be brought on my way thitherward by you, if first I be somewhat filled with your company.
Romans 15:25 νυνι δε πορευομαι εις ιερουσαλημ διακονων τοις αγιοις
Romans 15:25 But now I go unto Jerusalem to minister unto the saints.
Romans 15:26 ευδοκησαν γαρ μακεδονια και αχαια κοινωνιαν τινα ποιησασθαι εις τους πτωχους των αγιων των εν ιερουσαλημ
Romans 15:26 For it hath pleased them of Macedonia and Achaia to make a certain contribution for the poor saints which are at Jerusalem.
Romans 15:27 ευδοκησαν γαρ και οφειλεται αυτων εισιν ει γαρ τοις πνευματικοις αυτων εκοινωνησαν τα εθνη οφειλουσιν και εν τοις σαρκικοις λειτουργησαι αυτοις
Romans 15:27 It hath pleased them verily; and their debtors they are. For if the Gentiles have been made partakers of their spiritual things, their duty is also to minister unto them in carnal things.
Romans 15:28 τουτο ουν επιτελεσας και σφραγισαμενος αυτοις τον καρπον τουτον απελευσομαι δι υμων εις την σπανιαν
Romans 15:28 When therefore I have performed this, and have sealed to them this fruit, I will come by you into Spain.
Romans 15:29 οιδα δε οτι ερχομενος προς υμας εν πληρωματι ευλογιας του ευαγγελιου του χριστου ελευσομαι
Romans 15:29 And I am sure that, when I come unto you, I shall come in the fulness of the blessing of the gospel of Christ.
Romans 15:30 παρακαλω δε υμας αδελφοι δια του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου και δια της αγαπης του πνευματος συναγωνισασθαι μοι εν ταις προσευχαις υπερ εμου προς τον θεον
Romans 15:30 Now I beseech you, brethren, for the Lord Jesus Christ's sake, and for the love of the Spirit, that ye strive together with me in your prayers to God for me;
Romans 15:31 ινα ρυσθω απο των απειθουντων εν τη ιουδαια και ινα η διακονια μου η εις ιερουσαλημ ευπροσδεκτος γενηται τοις αγιοις
Romans 15:31 That I may be delivered from them that do not believe in Judaea; and that my service which I have for Jerusalem may be accepted of the saints;
Romans 15:32 ινα εν χαρα ελθω προς υμας δια θεληματος θεου και συναναπαυσωμαι υμιν
Romans 15:32 That I may come unto you with joy by the will of God, and may with you be refreshed.
Romans 15:33 ο δε θεος της ειρηνης μετα παντων υμων αμην
Romans 15:33 Now the God of peace be with you all. Amen.
Romans 16:1 συνιστημι δε υμιν φοιβην την αδελφην ημων ουσαν διακονον της εκκλησιας της εν κεγχρεαις
Romans 16:1 I commend unto you Phebe our sister, which is a servant of the church which is at Cenchrea:
Romans 16:2 ινα αυτην προσδεξησθε εν κυριω αξιως των αγιων και παραστητε αυτη εν ω αν υμων χρηζη πραγματι και γαρ αυτη προστατις πολλων εγενηθη και αυτου εμου
Romans 16:2 That ye receive her in the Lord, as becometh saints, and that ye assist her in whatsoever business she hath need of you: for she hath been a succourer of many, and of myself also.
Romans 16:3 ασπασασθε πρισκιλλαν και ακυλαν τους συνεργους μου εν χριστω ιησου
Romans 16:3 Greet Priscilla and Aquila my helpers in Christ Jesus:
Romans 16:4 οιτινες υπερ της ψυχης μου τον εαυτων τραχηλον υπεθηκαν οις ουκ εγω μονος ευχαριστω αλλα και πασαι αι εκκλησιαι των εθνων
Romans 16:4 Who have for my life laid down their own necks: unto whom not only I give thanks, but also all the churches of the Gentiles.
Romans 16:5 και την κατ οικον αυτων εκκλησιαν ασπασασθε επαινετον τον αγαπητον μου ος εστιν απαρχη της αχαιας εις χριστον
Romans 16:5 Likewise greet the church that is in their house. Salute my well-beloved Epaenetus, who is the firstfruits of Achaia unto Christ.
Romans 16:6 ασπασασθε μαριαμ ητις πολλα εκοπιασεν εις ημας
Romans 16:6 Greet Mary, who bestowed much labour on us.
Romans 16:7 ασπασασθε ανδρονικον και ιουνιαν τους συγγενεις μου και συναιχμαλωτους μου οιτινες εισιν επισημοι εν τοις αποστολοις οι και προ εμου γεγονασιν εν χριστω
Romans 16:7 Salute Andronicus and Junia, my kinsmen, and my fellow-prisoners, who are of note among the apostles, who also were in Christ before me.
Romans 16:8 ασπασασθε αμπλιαν τον αγαπητον μου εν κυριω
Romans 16:8 Greet Amplias my beloved in the Lord.
Romans 16:9 ασπασασθε ουρβανον τον συνεργον ημων εν χριστω και σταχυν τον αγαπητον μου
Romans 16:9 Salute Urbane, our helper in Christ, and Stachys my beloved.
Romans 16:10 ασπασασθε απελλην τον δοκιμον εν χριστω ασπασασθε τους εκ των αριστοβουλου
Romans 16:10 Salute Apelles approved in Christ. Salute them which are of Aristobulus' household.
Romans 16:11 ασπασασθε ηροδιωνα τον συγγενη μου ασπασασθε τους εκ των ναρκισσου τους οντας εν κυριω
Romans 16:11 Salute Herodion my kinsman. Greet them that be of the household of Narcissus, which are in the Lord.
Romans 16:12 ασπασασθε τρυφαιναν και τρυφωσαν τας κοπιωσας εν κυριω ασπασασθε περσιδα την αγαπητην ητις πολλα εκοπιασεν εν κυριω
Romans 16:12 Salute Tryphena and Tryphosa, who labour in the Lord. Salute the beloved Persis, which laboured much in the Lord.
Romans 16:13 ασπασασθε ρουφον τον εκλεκτον εν κυριω και την μητερα αυτου και εμου
Romans 16:13 Salute Rufus chosen in the Lord, and his mother and mine.
Romans 16:14 ασπασασθε ασυγκριτον φλεγοντα ερμαν πατροβαν ερμην και τους συν αυτοις αδελφους
Romans 16:14 Salute Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermas, Patrobas, Hermes, and the brethren which are with them.
Romans 16:15 ασπασασθε φιλολογον και ιουλιαν νηρεα και την αδελφην αυτου και ολυμπαν και τους συν αυτοις παντας αγιους
Romans 16:15 Salute Philologus, and Julia, Nereus, and his sister, and Olympas, and all the saints which are with them.
Romans 16:16 ασπασασθε αλληλους εν φιληματι αγιω ασπαζονται υμας αι εκκλησιαι του χριστου
Romans 16:16 Salute one another with an holy kiss. The churches of Christ salute you.
Romans 16:17 παρακαλω δε υμας αδελφοι σκοπειν τους τας διχοστασιας και τα σκανδαλα παρα την διδαχην ην υμεις εμαθετε ποιουντας και εκκλινατε απ αυτων
Romans 16:17 Now I beseech you, brethren, mark them which cause divisions and offences contrary to the doctrine which ye have learned; and avoid them.
Romans 16:18 οι γαρ τοιουτοι τω κυριω ημων ιησου χριστω ου δουλευουσιν αλλα τη εαυτων κοιλια και δια της χρηστολογιας και ευλογιας εξαπατωσιν τας καρδιας των ακακων
Romans 16:18 For they that are such serve not our Lord Jesus Christ, but their own belly; and by good words and fair speeches deceive the hearts of the simple.
Romans 16:19 η γαρ υμων υπακοη εις παντας αφικετο χαιρω ουν το εφ υμιν θελω δε υμας σοφους μεν ειναι εις το αγαθον ακεραιους δε εις το κακον
Romans 16:19 For your obedience is come abroad unto all men. I am glad therefore on your behalf: but yet I would have you wise unto that which is good, and simple concerning evil.
Romans 16:20 ο δε θεος της ειρηνης συντριψει τον σαταναν υπο τους ποδας υμων εν ταχει η χαρις του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου μεθ υμων
Romans 16:20 And the God of peace shall bruise Satan under your feet shortly. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen.
Romans 16:21 ασπαζονται υμας τιμοθεος ο συνεργος μου και λουκιος και ιασων και σωσιπατρος οι συγγενεις μου
Romans 16:21 Timotheus my workfellow, and Lucius, and Jason, and Sosipater, my kinsmen, salute you.
Romans 16:22 ασπαζομαι υμας εγω τερτιος ο γραψας την επιστολην εν κυριω
Romans 16:22 I Tertius, who wrote this epistle, salute you in the Lord.
Romans 16:23 ασπαζεται υμας γαιος ο ξενος μου και της εκκλησιας ολης ασπαζεται υμας εραστος ο οικονομος της πολεως και κουαρτος ο αδελφος
Romans 16:23 Gaius mine host, and of the whole church, saluteth you.  Erastus the chamberlain of the city saluteth you, and Quartus a brother.
Romans 16:24 η χαρις του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου μετα παντων υμων αμην
Romans 16:24 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.
Romans 16:25 τω δε δυναμενω υμας στηριξαι κατα το ευαγγελιον μου και το κηρυγμα ιησου χριστου κατα αποκαλυψιν μυστηριου χρονοις αιωνιοις σεσιγημενου
Romans 16:25 Now to him that is of power to stablish you according to my gospel, and the preaching of Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of the mystery, which was kept secret since the world began,
Romans 16:26 φανερωθεντος δε νυν δια τε γραφων προφητικων κατ επιταγην του αιωνιου θεου εις υπακοην πιστεως εις παντα τα εθνη γνωρισθεντος
Romans 16:26 But now is made manifest, and by the scriptures of the prophets, according to the commandment of the everlasting God, made known to all nations for the obedience of faith:
Romans 16:27 μονω σοφω θεω δια ιησου χριστου ω η δοξα εις τους αιωνας αμην [προς ρωμαιους εγραφη απο κορινθου δια φοιβης της διακονου της εν κεγχρεαις εκκλησιας]
Romans 16:27 To God only wise, be glory through Jesus Christ for ever.  Amen.
1 Corinthians 1:1 παυλος κλητος αποστολος ιησου χριστου δια θεληματος θεου και σωσθενης ο αδελφος
1 Corinthians 1:1 Paul called to be an apostle of Jesus Christ through the will of God, and Sosthenes our brother,
1 Corinthians 1:2 τη εκκλησια του θεου τη ουση εν κορινθω ηγιασμενοις εν χριστω ιησου κλητοις αγιοις συν πασιν τοις επικαλουμενοις το ονομα του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου εν παντι τοπω αυτων τε και ημων
1 Corinthians 1:2 Unto the church of God which is at Corinth, to them that are sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints, with all that in every place call upon the name of Jesus Christ our Lord, both their's and our's:
1 Corinthians 1:3 χαρις υμιν και ειρηνη απο θεου πατρος ημων και κυριου ιησου χριστου
1 Corinthians 1:3 Grace be unto you, and peace, from God our Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ.
1 Corinthians 1:4 ευχαριστω τω θεω μου παντοτε περι υμων επι τη χαριτι του θεου τη δοθειση υμιν εν χριστω ιησου
1 Corinthians 1:4 I thank my God always on your behalf, for the grace of God which is given you by Jesus Christ;
1 Corinthians 1:5 οτι εν παντι επλουτισθητε εν αυτω εν παντι λογω και παση γνωσει
1 Corinthians 1:5 That in every thing ye are enriched by him, in all utterance, and in all knowledge;
1 Corinthians 1:6 καθως το μαρτυριον του χριστου εβεβαιωθη εν υμιν
1 Corinthians 1:6 Even as the testimony of Christ was confirmed in you:
1 Corinthians 1:7 ωστε υμας μη υστερεισθαι εν μηδενι χαρισματι απεκδεχομενους την αποκαλυψιν του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου
1 Corinthians 1:7 So that ye come behind in no gift; waiting for the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ:
1 Corinthians 1:8 ος και βεβαιωσει υμας εως τελους ανεγκλητους εν τη ημερα του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου
1 Corinthians 1:8 Who shall also confirm you unto the end, that ye may be blameless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ.
1 Corinthians 1:9 πιστος ο θεος δι ου εκληθητε εις κοινωνιαν του υιου αυτου ιησου χριστου του κυριου ημων
1 Corinthians 1:9 God is faithful, by whom ye were called unto the fellowship of his Son Jesus Christ our Lord.
1 Corinthians 1:10 παρακαλω δε υμας αδελφοι δια του ονοματος του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου ινα το αυτο λεγητε παντες και μη η εν υμιν σχισματα ητε δε κατηρτισμενοι εν τω αυτω νοι και εν τη αυτη γνωμη
1 Corinthians 1:10 Now I beseech you, brethren, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that ye all speak the same thing, and that there be no divisions among you; but that ye be perfectly joined together in the same mind and in the same judgment.
1 Corinthians 1:11 εδηλωθη γαρ μοι περι υμων αδελφοι μου υπο των χλοης οτι εριδες εν υμιν εισιν
1 Corinthians 1:11 For it hath been declared unto me of you, my brethren, by them which are of the house of Chloe, that there are contentions among you.
1 Corinthians 1:12 λεγω δε τουτο οτι εκαστος υμων λεγει εγω μεν ειμι παυλου εγω δε απολλω εγω δε κηφα εγω δε χριστου
1 Corinthians 1:12 Now this I say, that every one of you saith, I am of Paul; and I of Apollos; and I of Cephas; and I of Christ.
1 Corinthians 1:13 μεμερισται ο χριστος μη παυλος εσταυρωθη υπερ υμων η εις το ονομα παυλου εβαπτισθητε
1 Corinthians 1:13 Is Christ divided? was Paul crucified for you? or were ye baptized in the name of Paul?
1 Corinthians 1:14 ευχαριστω τω θεω οτι ουδενα υμων εβαπτισα ει μη κρισπον και γαιον
1 Corinthians 1:14 I thank God that I baptized none of you, but Crispus and Gaius;
1 Corinthians 1:15 ινα μη τις ειπη οτι εις το εμον ονομα εβαπτισα
1 Corinthians 1:15 Lest any should say that I had baptized in mine own name.
1 Corinthians 1:16 εβαπτισα δε και τον στεφανα οικον λοιπον ουκ οιδα ει τινα αλλον εβαπτισα
1 Corinthians 1:16 And I baptized also the household of Stephanas: besides, I know not whether I baptized any other.
1 Corinthians 1:17 ου γαρ απεστειλεν με χριστος βαπτιζειν αλλ ευαγγελιζεσθαι ουκ εν σοφια λογου ινα μη κενωθη ο σταυρος του χριστου
1 Corinthians 1:17 For Christ sent me not to baptize, but to preach the gospel: not with wisdom of words, lest the cross of Christ should be made of none effect.
1 Corinthians 1:18 ο λογος γαρ ο του σταυρου τοις μεν απολλυμενοις μωρια εστιν τοις δε σωζομενοις ημιν δυναμις θεου εστιν
1 Corinthians 1:18 For the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness; but unto us which are saved it is the power of God.
1 Corinthians 1:19 γεγραπται γαρ απολω την σοφιαν των σοφων και την συνεσιν των συνετων αθετησω
1 Corinthians 1:19 For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and will bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent.
1 Corinthians 1:20 που σοφος που γραμματευς που συζητητης του αιωνος τουτου ουχι εμωρανεν ο θεος την σοφιαν του κοσμου τουτου
1 Corinthians 1:20 Where is the wise? where is the scribe? where is the disputer of this world? hath not God made foolish the wisdom of this world?
1 Corinthians 1:21 επειδη γαρ εν τη σοφια του θεου ουκ εγνω ο κοσμος δια της σοφιας τον θεον ευδοκησεν ο θεος δια της μωριας του κηρυγματος σωσαι τους πιστευοντας
1 Corinthians 1:21 For after that in the wisdom of God the world by wisdom knew not God, it pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe.
1 Corinthians 1:22 επειδη και ιουδαιοι σημειον αιτουσιν και ελληνες σοφιαν ζητουσιν
1 Corinthians 1:22 For the Jews require a sign, and the Greeks seek after wisdom:
1 Corinthians 1:23 ημεις δε κηρυσσομεν χριστον εσταυρωμενον ιουδαιοις μεν σκανδαλον ελλησιν δε μωριαν
1 Corinthians 1:23 But we preach Christ crucified, unto the Jews a stumblingblock, and unto the Greeks foolishness;
1 Corinthians 1:24 αυτοις δε τοις κλητοις ιουδαιοις τε και ελλησιν χριστον θεου δυναμιν και θεου σοφιαν
1 Corinthians 1:24 But unto them which are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God, and the wisdom of God.
1 Corinthians 1:25 οτι το μωρον του θεου σοφωτερον των ανθρωπων εστιν και το ασθενες του θεου ισχυροτερον των ανθρωπων εστιν
1 Corinthians 1:25 Because the foolishness of God is wiser than men; and the weakness of God is stronger than men.
1 Corinthians 1:26 βλεπετε γαρ την κλησιν υμων αδελφοι οτι ου πολλοι σοφοι κατα σαρκα ου πολλοι δυνατοι ου πολλοι ευγενεις
1 Corinthians 1:26 For ye see your calling, brethren, how that not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble, are called:
1 Corinthians 1:27 αλλα τα μωρα του κοσμου εξελεξατο ο θεος ινα τους σοφους καταισχυνη και τα ασθενη του κοσμου εξελεξατο ο θεος ινα καταισχυνη τα ισχυρα
1 Corinthians 1:27 But God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise; and God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty;
1 Corinthians 1:28 και τα αγενη του κοσμου και τα εξουθενημενα εξελεξατο ο θεος και τα μη οντα ινα τα οντα καταργηση
1 Corinthians 1:28 And base things of the world, and things which are despised, hath God chosen, yea, and things which are not, to bring to nought things that are:
1 Corinthians 1:29 οπως μη καυχησηται πασα σαρξ ενωπιον αυτου
1 Corinthians 1:29 That no flesh should glory in his presence.
1 Corinthians 1:30 εξ αυτου δε υμεις εστε εν χριστω ιησου ος εγενηθη ημιν σοφια απο θεου δικαιοσυνη τε και αγιασμος και απολυτρωσις
1 Corinthians 1:30 But of him are ye in Christ Jesus, who of God is made unto us wisdom, and righteousness, and sanctification, and redemption:
1 Corinthians 1:31 ινα καθως γεγραπται ο καυχωμενος εν κυριω καυχασθω
1 Corinthians 1:31 That, according as it is written, He that glorieth, let him glory in the Lord.
1 Corinthians 2:1 καγω ελθων προς υμας αδελφοι ηλθον ου καθ υπεροχην λογου η σοφιας καταγγελλων υμιν το μαρτυριον του θεου
1 Corinthians 2:1 And I, brethren, when I came to you, came not with excellency of speech or of wisdom, declaring unto you the testimony of God.
1 Corinthians 2:2 ου γαρ εκρινα του ειδεναι τι εν υμιν ει μη ιησουν χριστον και τουτον εσταυρωμενον
1 Corinthians 2:2 For I determined not to know any thing among you, save Jesus Christ, and him crucified.
1 Corinthians 2:3 και εγω εν ασθενεια και εν φοβω και εν τρομω πολλω εγενομην προς υμας
1 Corinthians 2:3 And I was with you in weakness, and in fear, and in much trembling.
1 Corinthians 2:4 και ο λογος μου και το κηρυγμα μου ουκ εν πειθοις ανθρωπινης σοφιας λογοις αλλ εν αποδειξει πνευματος και δυναμεως
1 Corinthians 2:4 And my speech and my preaching was not with enticing words of man's wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power:
1 Corinthians 2:5 ινα η πιστις υμων μη η εν σοφια ανθρωπων αλλ εν δυναμει θεου
1 Corinthians 2:5 That your faith should not stand in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God.
1 Corinthians 2:6 σοφιαν δε λαλουμεν εν τοις τελειοις σοφιαν δε ου του αιωνος τουτου ουδε των αρχοντων του αιωνος τουτου των καταργουμενων
1 Corinthians 2:6 Howbeit we speak wisdom among them that are perfect: yet not the wisdom of this world, nor of the princes of this world, that come to nought:
1 Corinthians 2:7 αλλα λαλουμεν σοφιαν θεου εν μυστηριω την αποκεκρυμμενην ην προωρισεν ο θεος προ των αιωνων εις δοξαν ημων
1 Corinthians 2:7 But we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery, even the hidden wisdom, which God ordained before the world unto our glory:
1 Corinthians 2:8 ην ουδεις των αρχοντων του αιωνος τουτου εγνωκεν ει γαρ εγνωσαν ουκ αν τον κυριον της δοξης εσταυρωσαν
1 Corinthians 2:8 Which none of the princes of this world knew: for had they known it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory.
1 Corinthians 2:9 αλλα καθως γεγραπται α οφθαλμος ουκ ειδεν και ους ουκ ηκουσεν και επι καρδιαν ανθρωπου ουκ ανεβη α ητοιμασεν ο θεος τοις αγαπωσιν αυτον
1 Corinthians 2:9 But as it is written, Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath prepared for them that love him.
1 Corinthians 2:10 ημιν δε ο θεος απεκαλυψεν δια του πνευματος αυτου το γαρ πνευμα παντα ερευνα και τα βαθη του θεου
1 Corinthians 2:10 But God hath revealed them unto us by his Spirit: for the Spirit searcheth all things, yea, the deep things of God.
1 Corinthians 2:11 τις γαρ οιδεν ανθρωπων τα του ανθρωπου ει μη το πνευμα του ανθρωπου το εν αυτω ουτως και τα του θεου ουδεις οιδεν ει μη το πνευμα του θεου
1 Corinthians 2:11 For what man knoweth the things of a man, save the spirit of man which is in him? even so the things of God knoweth no man, but the Spirit of God.
1 Corinthians 2:12 ημεις δε ου το πνευμα του κοσμου ελαβομεν αλλα το πνευμα το εκ του θεου ινα ειδωμεν τα υπο του θεου χαρισθεντα ημιν
1 Corinthians 2:12 Now we have received, not the spirit of the world, but the spirit which is of God; that we might know the things that are freely given to us of God.
1 Corinthians 2:13 α και λαλουμεν ουκ εν διδακτοις ανθρωπινης σοφιας λογοις αλλ εν διδακτοις πνευματος αγιου πνευματικοις πνευματικα συγκρινοντες
1 Corinthians 2:13 Which things also we speak, not in the words which man's wisdom teacheth, but which the Holy Ghost teacheth; comparing spiritual things with spiritual.
1 Corinthians 2:14 ψυχικος δε ανθρωπος ου δεχεται τα του πνευματος του θεου μωρια γαρ αυτω εστιν και ου δυναται γνωναι οτι πνευματικως ανακρινεται
1 Corinthians 2:14 But the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God: for they are foolishness unto him: neither can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned.
1 Corinthians 2:15 ο δε πνευματικος ανακρινει μεν παντα αυτος δε υπ ουδενος ανακρινεται
1 Corinthians 2:15 But he that is spiritual judgeth all things, yet he himself is judged of no man.
1 Corinthians 2:16 τις γαρ εγνω νουν κυριου ος συμβιβασει αυτον ημεις δε νουν χριστου εχομεν
1 Corinthians 2:16 For who hath known the mind of the Lord, that he may instruct him? But we have the mind of Christ.
1 Corinthians 3:1 και εγω αδελφοι ουκ ηδυνηθην λαλησαι υμιν ως πνευματικοις αλλ ως σαρκικοις ως νηπιοις εν χριστω
1 Corinthians 3:1 And I, brethren, could not speak unto you as unto spiritual, but as unto carnal, even as unto babes in Christ.
1 Corinthians 3:2 γαλα υμας εποτισα και ου βρωμα ουπω γαρ ηδυνασθε αλλ ουτε ετι νυν δυνασθε
1 Corinthians 3:2 I have fed you with milk, and not with meat: for hitherto ye were not able to bear it, neither yet now are ye able.
1 Corinthians 3:3 ετι γαρ σαρκικοι εστε οπου γαρ εν υμιν ζηλος και ερις και διχοστασιαι ουχι σαρκικοι εστε και κατα ανθρωπον περιπατειτε
1 Corinthians 3:3 For ye are yet carnal: for whereas there is among you envying, and strife, and divisions, are ye not carnal, and walk as men?
1 Corinthians 3:4 οταν γαρ λεγη τις εγω μεν ειμι παυλου ετερος δε εγω απολλω ουχι σαρκικοι εστε
1 Corinthians 3:4 For while one saith, I am of Paul; and another, I am of Apollos; are ye not carnal?
1 Corinthians 3:5 τις ουν εστιν παυλος τις δε απολλως αλλ η διακονοι δι ων επιστευσατε και εκαστω ως ο κυριος εδωκεν
1 Corinthians 3:5 Who then is Paul, and who is Apollos, but ministers by whom ye believed, even as the Lord gave to every man?
1 Corinthians 3:6 εγω εφυτευσα απολλως εποτισεν αλλ ο θεος ηυξανεν
1 Corinthians 3:6 I have planted, Apollos watered; but God gave the increase.
1 Corinthians 3:7 ωστε ουτε ο φυτευων εστιν τι ουτε ο ποτιζων αλλ ο αυξανων θεος
1 Corinthians 3:7 So then neither is he that planteth any thing, neither he that watereth; but God that giveth the increase.
1 Corinthians 3:8 ο φυτευων δε και ο ποτιζων εν εισιν εκαστος δε τον ιδιον μισθον ληψεται κατα τον ιδιον κοπον
1 Corinthians 3:8 Now he that planteth and he that watereth are one: and every man shall receive his own reward according to his own labour.
1 Corinthians 3:9 θεου γαρ εσμεν συνεργοι θεου γεωργιον θεου οικοδομη εστε
1 Corinthians 3:9 For we are labourers together with God: ye are God's husbandry, ye are God's building.
1 Corinthians 3:10 κατα την χαριν του θεου την δοθεισαν μοι ως σοφος αρχιτεκτων θεμελιον τεθεικα αλλος δε εποικοδομει εκαστος δε βλεπετω πως εποικοδομει
1 Corinthians 3:10 According to the grace of God which is given unto me, as a wise masterbuilder, I have laid the foundation, and another buildeth thereon. But let every man take heed how he buildeth thereupon.
1 Corinthians 3:11 θεμελιον γαρ αλλον ουδεις δυναται θειναι παρα τον κειμενον ος εστιν ιησους ο χριστος
1 Corinthians 3:11 For other foundation can no man lay than that is laid, which is Jesus Christ.
1 Corinthians 3:12 ει δε τις εποικοδομει επι τον θεμελιον τουτον χρυσον αργυρον λιθους τιμιους ξυλα χορτον καλαμην
1 Corinthians 3:12 Now if any man build upon this foundation gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, stubble;
1 Corinthians 3:13 εκαστου το εργον φανερον γενησεται η γαρ ημερα δηλωσει οτι εν πυρι αποκαλυπτεται και εκαστου το εργον οποιον εστιν το πυρ δοκιμασει
1 Corinthians 3:13 Every man's work shall be made manifest: for the day shall declare it, because it shall be revealed by fire; and the fire shall try every man's work of what sort it is.
1 Corinthians 3:14 ει τινος το εργον μενει ο επωκοδομησεν μισθον ληψεται
1 Corinthians 3:14 If any man's work abide which he hath built thereupon, he shall receive a reward.
1 Corinthians 3:15 ει τινος το εργον κατακαησεται ζημιωθησεται αυτος δε σωθησεται ουτως δε ως δια πυρος
1 Corinthians 3:15 If any man's work shall be burned, he shall suffer loss: but he himself shall be saved; yet so as by fire.
1 Corinthians 3:16 ουκ οιδατε οτι ναος θεου εστε και το πνευμα του θεου οικει εν υμιν
1 Corinthians 3:16 Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you?
1 Corinthians 3:17 ει τις τον ναον του θεου φθειρει φθερει τουτον ο θεος ο γαρ ναος του θεου αγιος εστιν οιτινες εστε υμεις
1 Corinthians 3:17 If any man defile the temple of God, him shall God destroy; for the temple of God is holy, which temple ye are.
1 Corinthians 3:18 μηδεις εαυτον εξαπατατω ει τις δοκει σοφος ειναι εν υμιν εν τω αιωνι τουτω μωρος γενεσθω ινα γενηται σοφος
1 Corinthians 3:18 Let no man deceive himself. If any man among you seemeth to be wise in this world, let him become a fool, that he may be wise.
1 Corinthians 3:19 η γαρ σοφια του κοσμου τουτου μωρια παρα τω θεω εστιν γεγραπται γαρ ο δρασσομενος τους σοφους εν τη πανουργια αυτων
1 Corinthians 3:19 For the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God. For it is written, He taketh the wise in their own craftiness.
1 Corinthians 3:20 και παλιν κυριος γινωσκει τους διαλογισμους των σοφων οτι εισιν ματαιοι
1 Corinthians 3:20 And again, The Lord knoweth the thoughts of the wise, that they are vain.
1 Corinthians 3:21 ωστε μηδεις καυχασθω εν ανθρωποις παντα γαρ υμων εστιν
1 Corinthians 3:21 Therefore let no man glory in men. For all things are your's;
1 Corinthians 3:22 ειτε παυλος ειτε απολλως ειτε κηφας ειτε κοσμος ειτε ζωη ειτε θανατος ειτε ενεστωτα ειτε μελλοντα παντα υμων εστιν
1 Corinthians 3:22 Whether Paul, or Apollos, or Cephas, or the world, or life, or death, or things present, or things to come; all are your's;
1 Corinthians 3:23 υμεις δε χριστου χριστος δε θεου
1 Corinthians 3:23 And ye are Christ's; and Christ is God's.
1 Corinthians 4:1 ουτως ημας λογιζεσθω ανθρωπος ως υπηρετας χριστου και οικονομους μυστηριων θεου
1 Corinthians 4:1 Let a man so account of us, as of the ministers of Christ, and stewards of the mysteries of God.
1 Corinthians 4:2 ο δε λοιπον ζητειται εν τοις οικονομοις ινα πιστος τις ευρεθη
1 Corinthians 4:2 Moreover it is required in stewards, that a man be found faithful.
1 Corinthians 4:3 εμοι δε εις ελαχιστον εστιν ινα υφ υμων ανακριθω η υπο ανθρωπινης ημερας αλλ ουδε εμαυτον ανακρινω
1 Corinthians 4:3 But with me it is a very small thing that I should be judged of you, or of man's judgment: yea, I judge not mine own self.
1 Corinthians 4:4 ουδεν γαρ εμαυτω συνοιδα αλλ ουκ εν τουτω δεδικαιωμαι ο δε ανακρινων με κυριος εστιν
1 Corinthians 4:4 For I know nothing by myself; yet am I not hereby justified: but he that judgeth me is the Lord.
1 Corinthians 4:5 ωστε μη προ καιρου τι κρινετε εως αν ελθη ο κυριος ος και φωτισει τα κρυπτα του σκοτους και φανερωσει τας βουλας των καρδιων και τοτε ο επαινος γενησεται εκαστω απο του θεου
1 Corinthians 4:5 Therefore judge nothing before the time, until the Lord come, who both will bring to light the hidden things of darkness, and will make manifest the counsels of the hearts: and then shall every man have praise of God.
1 Corinthians 4:6 ταυτα δε αδελφοι μετεσχηματισα εις εμαυτον και απολλω δι υμας ινα εν ημιν μαθητε το μη υπερ ο γεγραπται φρονειν ινα μη εις υπερ του ενος φυσιουσθε κατα του ετερου
1 Corinthians 4:6 And these things, brethren, I have in a figure transferred to myself and to Apollos for your sakes; that ye might learn in us not to think of men above that which is written, that no one of you be puffed up for one against another.
1 Corinthians 4:7 τις γαρ σε διακρινει τι δε εχεις ο ουκ ελαβες ει δε και ελαβες τι καυχασαι ως μη λαβων
1 Corinthians 4:7 For who maketh thee to differ from another? and what hast thou that thou didst not receive? now if thou didst receive it, why dost thou glory, as if thou hadst not received it?
1 Corinthians 4:8 ηδη κεκορεσμενοι εστε ηδη επλουτησατε χωρις ημων εβασιλευσατε και οφελον γε εβασιλευσατε ινα και ημεις υμιν συμβασιλευσωμεν
1 Corinthians 4:8 Now ye are full, now ye are rich, ye have reigned as kings without us: and I would to God ye did reign, that we also might reign with you.
1 Corinthians 4:9 δοκω γαρ οτι ο θεος ημας τους αποστολους εσχατους απεδειξεν ως επιθανατιους οτι θεατρον εγενηθημεν τω κοσμω και αγγελοις και ανθρωποις
1 Corinthians 4:9 For I think that God hath set forth us the apostles last, as it were appointed to death: for we are made a spectacle unto the world, and to angels, and to men.
1 Corinthians 4:10 ημεις μωροι δια χριστον υμεις δε φρονιμοι εν χριστω ημεις ασθενεις υμεις δε ισχυροι υμεις ενδοξοι ημεις δε ατιμοι
1 Corinthians 4:10 We are fools for Christ's sake, but ye are wise in Christ; we are weak, but ye are strong; ye are honourable, but we are despised.
1 Corinthians 4:11 αχρι της αρτι ωρας και πεινωμεν και διψωμεν και γυμνητευομεν και κολαφιζομεθα και αστατουμεν
1 Corinthians 4:11 Even unto this present hour we both hunger, and thirst, and are naked, and are buffeted, and have no certain dwellingplace;
1 Corinthians 4:12 και κοπιωμεν εργαζομενοι ταις ιδιαις χερσιν λοιδορουμενοι ευλογουμεν διωκομενοι ανεχομεθα
1 Corinthians 4:12 And labour, working with our own hands: being reviled, we bless; being persecuted, we suffer it:
1 Corinthians 4:13 βλασφημουμενοι παρακαλουμεν ως περικαθαρματα του κοσμου εγενηθημεν παντων περιψημα εως αρτι
1 Corinthians 4:13 Being defamed, we intreat: we are made as the filth of the world, and are the offscouring of all things unto this day.
1 Corinthians 4:14 ουκ εντρεπων υμας γραφω ταυτα αλλ ως τεκνα μου αγαπητα νουθετω
1 Corinthians 4:14 I write not these things to shame you, but as my beloved sons I warn you.
1 Corinthians 4:15 εαν γαρ μυριους παιδαγωγους εχητε εν χριστω αλλ ου πολλους πατερας εν γαρ χριστω ιησου δια του ευαγγελιου εγω υμας εγεννησα
1 Corinthians 4:15 For though ye have ten thousand instructers in Christ, yet have ye not many fathers: for in Christ Jesus I have begotten you through the gospel.
1 Corinthians 4:16 παρακαλω ουν υμας μιμηται μου γινεσθε
1 Corinthians 4:16 Wherefore I beseech you, be ye followers of me.
1 Corinthians 4:17 δια τουτο επεμψα υμιν τιμοθεον ος εστιν τεκνον μου αγαπητον και πιστον εν κυριω ος υμας αναμνησει τας οδους μου τας εν χριστω καθως πανταχου εν παση εκκλησια διδασκω
1 Corinthians 4:17 For this cause have I sent unto you Timotheus, who is my beloved son, and faithful in the Lord, who shall bring you into remembrance of my ways which be in Christ, as I teach every where in every church.
1 Corinthians 4:18 ως μη ερχομενου δε μου προς υμας εφυσιωθησαν τινες
1 Corinthians 4:18 Now some are puffed up, as though I would not come to you.
1 Corinthians 4:19 ελευσομαι δε ταχεως προς υμας εαν ο κυριος θεληση και γνωσομαι ου τον λογον των πεφυσιωμενων αλλα την δυναμιν
1 Corinthians 4:19 But I will come to you shortly, if the Lord will, and will know, not the speech of them which are puffed up, but the power.
1 Corinthians 4:20 ου γαρ εν λογω η βασιλεια του θεου αλλ εν δυναμει
1 Corinthians 4:20 For the kingdom of God is not in word, but in power.
1 Corinthians 4:21 τι θελετε εν ραβδω ελθω προς υμας η εν αγαπη πνευματι τε πραοτητος
1 Corinthians 4:21 What will ye? shall I come unto you with a rod, or in love, and in the spirit of meekness?
1 Corinthians 5:1 ολως ακουεται εν υμιν πορνεια και τοιαυτη πορνεια ητις ουδε εν τοις εθνεσιν ονομαζεται ωστε γυναικα τινα του πατρος εχειν
1 Corinthians 5:1 It is reported commonly that there is fornication among you, and such fornication as is not so much as named among the Gentiles, that one should have his father's wife.
1 Corinthians 5:2 και υμεις πεφυσιωμενοι εστε και ουχι μαλλον επενθησατε ινα εξαρθη εκ μεσου υμων ο το εργον τουτο ποιησας
1 Corinthians 5:2 And ye are puffed up, and have not rather mourned, that he that hath done this deed might be taken away from among you.
1 Corinthians 5:3 εγω μεν γαρ ως απων τω σωματι παρων δε τω πνευματι ηδη κεκρικα ως παρων τον ουτως τουτο κατεργασαμενον
1 Corinthians 5:3 For I verily, as absent in body, but present in spirit, have judged already, as though I were present, concerning him that hath so done this deed,
1 Corinthians 5:4 εν τω ονοματι του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου συναχθεντων υμων και του εμου πνευματος συν τη δυναμει του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου
1 Corinthians 5:4 In the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, when ye are gathered together, and my spirit, with the power of our Lord Jesus Christ,
1 Corinthians 5:5 παραδουναι τον τοιουτον τω σατανα εις ολεθρον της σαρκος ινα το πνευμα σωθη εν τη ημερα του κυριου ιησου
1 Corinthians 5:5 To deliver such an one unto Satan for the destruction of the flesh, that the spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord Jesus.
1 Corinthians 5:6 ου καλον το καυχημα υμων ουκ οιδατε οτι μικρα ζυμη ολον το φυραμα ζυμοι
1 Corinthians 5:6 Your glorying is not good. Know ye not that a little leaven leaveneth the whole lump?
1 Corinthians 5:7 εκκαθαρατε ουν την παλαιαν ζυμην ινα ητε νεον φυραμα καθως εστε αζυμοι και γαρ το πασχα ημων υπερ ημων ετυθη χριστος
1 Corinthians 5:7 Purge out therefore the old leaven, that ye may be a new lump, as ye are unleavened. For even Christ our passover is sacrificed for us:
1 Corinthians 5:8 ωστε εορταζωμεν μη εν ζυμη παλαια μηδε εν ζυμη κακιας και πονηριας αλλ εν αζυμοις ειλικρινειας και αληθειας
1 Corinthians 5:8 Therefore let us keep the feast, not with old leaven, neither with the leaven of malice and wickedness; but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth.
1 Corinthians 5:9 εγραψα υμιν εν τη επιστολη μη συναναμιγνυσθαι πορνοις
1 Corinthians 5:9 I wrote unto you in an epistle not to company with fornicators:
1 Corinthians 5:10 και ου παντως τοις πορνοις του κοσμου τουτου η τοις πλεονεκταις η αρπαξιν η ειδωλολατραις επει οφειλετε αρα εκ του κοσμου εξελθειν
1 Corinthians 5:10 Yet not altogether with the fornicators of this world, or with the covetous, or extortioners, or with idolaters; for then must ye needs go out of the world.
1 Corinthians 5:11 νυνι δε εγραψα υμιν μη συναναμιγνυσθαι εαν τις αδελφος ονομαζομενος η πορνος η πλεονεκτης η ειδωλολατρης η λοιδορος η μεθυσος η αρπαξ τω τοιουτω μηδε συνεσθιειν
1 Corinthians 5:11 But now I have written unto you not to keep company, if any man that is called a brother be a fornicator, or covetous, or an idolater, or a railer, or a drunkard, or an extortioner; with such an one no not to eat.
1 Corinthians 5:12 τι γαρ μοι και τους εξω κρινειν ουχι τους εσω υμεις κρινετε
1 Corinthians 5:12 For what have I to do to judge them also that are without? do not ye judge them that are within?
1 Corinthians 5:13 τους δε εξω ο θεος κρινει και εξαρειτε τον πονηρον εξ υμων αυτων
1 Corinthians 5:13 But them that are without God judgeth. Therefore put away from among yourselves that wicked person.
1 Corinthians 6:1 τολμα τις υμων πραγμα εχων προς τον ετερον κρινεσθαι επι των αδικων και ουχι επι των αγιων
1 Corinthians 6:1 Dare any of you, having a matter against another, go to law before the unjust, and not before the saints?
1 Corinthians 6:2 ουκ οιδατε οτι οι αγιοι τον κοσμον κρινουσιν και ει εν υμιν κρινεται ο κοσμος αναξιοι εστε κριτηριων ελαχιστων
1 Corinthians 6:2 Do ye not know that the saints shall judge the world? and if the world shall be judged by you, are ye unworthy to judge the smallest matters?
1 Corinthians 6:3 ουκ οιδατε οτι αγγελους κρινουμεν μητι γε βιωτικα
1 Corinthians 6:3 Know ye not that we shall judge angels? how much more things that pertain to this life?
1 Corinthians 6:4 βιωτικα μεν ουν κριτηρια εαν εχητε τους εξουθενημενους εν τη εκκλησια τουτους καθιζετε
1 Corinthians 6:4 If then ye have judgments of things pertaining to this life, set them to judge who are least esteemed in the church.
1 Corinthians 6:5 προς εντροπην υμιν λεγω ουτως ουκ εστιν εν υμιν σοφος ουδε εις ος δυνησεται διακριναι ανα μεσον του αδελφου αυτου
1 Corinthians 6:5 I speak to your shame. Is it so, that there is not a wise man among you? no, not one that shall be able to judge between his brethren?
1 Corinthians 6:6 αλλα αδελφος μετα αδελφου κρινεται και τουτο επι απιστων
1 Corinthians 6:6 But brother goeth to law with brother, and that before the unbelievers.
1 Corinthians 6:7 ηδη μεν ουν ολως ηττημα εν υμιν εστιν οτι κριματα εχετε μεθ εαυτων διατι ουχι μαλλον αδικεισθε διατι ουχι μαλλον αποστερεισθε
1 Corinthians 6:7 Now therefore there is utterly a fault among you, because ye go to law one with another. Why do ye not rather take wrong?  why do ye not rather suffer yourselves to be defrauded?
1 Corinthians 6:8 αλλα υμεις αδικειτε και αποστερειτε και ταυτα αδελφους
1 Corinthians 6:8 Nay, ye do wrong, and defraud, and that your brethren.
1 Corinthians 6:9 η ουκ οιδατε οτι αδικοι βασιλειαν θεου ου κληρονομησουσιν μη πλανασθε ουτε πορνοι ουτε ειδωλολατραι ουτε μοιχοι ουτε μαλακοι ουτε αρσενοκοιται
1 Corinthians 6:9 Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Be not deceived: neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor abusers of themselves with mankind,
1 Corinthians 6:10 ουτε κλεπται ουτε πλεονεκται ουτε μεθυσοι ου λοιδοροι ουχ αρπαγες βασιλειαν θεου ου κληρονομησουσιν
1 Corinthians 6:10 Nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners, shall inherit the kingdom of God.
1 Corinthians 6:11 και ταυτα τινες ητε αλλα απελουσασθε αλλα ηγιασθητε αλλ εδικαιωθητε εν τω ονοματι του κυριου ιησου και εν τω πνευματι του θεου ημων
1 Corinthians 6:11 And such were some of you: but ye are washed, but ye are sanctified, but ye are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus, and by the Spirit of our God.
1 Corinthians 6:12 παντα μοι εξεστιν αλλ ου παντα συμφερει παντα μοι εξεστιν αλλ ουκ εγω εξουσιασθησομαι υπο τινος
1 Corinthians 6:12 All things are lawful unto me, but all things are not expedient: all things are lawful for me, but I will not be brought under the power of any.
1 Corinthians 6:13 τα βρωματα τη κοιλια και η κοιλια τοις βρωμασιν ο δε θεος και ταυτην και ταυτα καταργησει το δε σωμα ου τη πορνεια αλλα τω κυριω και ο κυριος τω σωματι
1 Corinthians 6:13 Meats for the belly, and the belly for meats: but God shall destroy both it and them. Now the body is not for fornication, but for the Lord; and the Lord for the body.
1 Corinthians 6:14 ο δε θεος και τον κυριον ηγειρεν και ημας εξεγερει δια της δυναμεως αυτου
1 Corinthians 6:14 And God hath both raised up the Lord, and will also raise up us by his own power.
1 Corinthians 6:15 ουκ οιδατε οτι τα σωματα υμων μελη χριστου εστιν αρας ουν τα μελη του χριστου ποιησω πορνης μελη μη γενοιτο
1 Corinthians 6:15 Know ye not that your bodies are the members of Christ? shall I then take the members of Christ, and make them the members of an harlot? God forbid.
1 Corinthians 6:16 η ουκ οιδατε οτι ο κολλωμενος τη πορνη εν σωμα εστιν εσονται γαρ φησιν οι δυο εις σαρκα μιαν
1 Corinthians 6:16 What? know ye not that he which is joined to an harlot is one body? for two, saith he, shall be one flesh.
1 Corinthians 6:17 ο δε κολλωμενος τω κυριω εν πνευμα εστιν
1 Corinthians 6:17 But he that is joined unto the Lord is one spirit.
1 Corinthians 6:18 φευγετε την πορνειαν παν αμαρτημα ο εαν ποιηση ανθρωπος εκτος του σωματος εστιν ο δε πορνευων εις το ιδιον σωμα αμαρτανει
1 Corinthians 6:18 Flee fornication. Every sin that a man doeth is without the body; but he that committeth fornication sinneth against his own body.
1 Corinthians 6:19 η ουκ οιδατε οτι το σωμα υμων ναος του εν υμιν αγιου πνευματος εστιν ου εχετε απο θεου και ουκ εστε εαυτων
1 Corinthians 6:19 What? know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost which is in you, which ye have of God, and ye are not your own?
1 Corinthians 6:20 ηγορασθητε γαρ τιμης δοξασατε δη τον θεον εν τω σωματι υμων και εν τω πνευματι υμων ατινα εστιν του θεου
1 Corinthians 6:20 For ye are bought with a price: therefore glorify God in your body, and in your spirit, which are God's.
1 Corinthians 7:1 περι δε ων εγραψατε μοι καλον ανθρωπω γυναικος μη απτεσθαι
1 Corinthians 7:1 Now concerning the things whereof ye wrote unto me: It is good for a man not to touch a woman.
1 Corinthians 7:2 δια δε τας πορνειας εκαστος την εαυτου γυναικα εχετω και εκαστη τον ιδιον ανδρα εχετω
1 Corinthians 7:2 Nevertheless, to avoid fornication, let every man have his own wife, and let every woman have her own husband.
1 Corinthians 7:3 τη γυναικι ο ανηρ την οφειλομενην ευνοιαν αποδιδοτω ομοιως δε και η γυνη τω ανδρι
1 Corinthians 7:3 Let the husband render unto the wife due benevolence: and likewise also the wife unto the husband.
1 Corinthians 7:4 η γυνη του ιδιου σωματος ουκ εξουσιαζει αλλ ο ανηρ ομοιως δε και ο ανηρ του ιδιου σωματος ουκ εξουσιαζει αλλ η γυνη
1 Corinthians 7:4 The wife hath not power of her own body, but the husband: and likewise also the husband hath not power of his own body, but the wife.
1 Corinthians 7:5 μη αποστερειτε αλληλους ει μη τι αν εκ συμφωνου προς καιρον ινα σχολαζητε τη νηστεια και τη προσευχη και παλιν επι το αυτο συνερχησθε ινα μη πειραζη υμας ο σατανας δια την ακρασιαν υμων
1 Corinthians 7:5 Defraud ye not one the other, except it be with consent for a time, that ye may give yourselves to fasting and prayer; and come together again, that Satan tempt you not for your incontinency.
1 Corinthians 7:6 τουτο δε λεγω κατα συγγνωμην ου κατ επιταγην
1 Corinthians 7:6 But I speak this by permission, and not of commandment.
1 Corinthians 7:7 θελω γαρ παντας ανθρωπους ειναι ως και εμαυτον αλλ εκαστος ιδιον χαρισμα εχει εκ θεου ος μεν ουτως ος δε ουτως
1 Corinthians 7:7 For I would that all men were even as I myself. But every man hath his proper gift of God, one after this manner, and another after that.
1 Corinthians 7:8 λεγω δε τοις αγαμοις και ταις χηραις καλον αυτοις εστιν εαν μεινωσιν ως καγω
1 Corinthians 7:8 I say therefore to the unmarried and widows, It is good for them if they abide even as I.
1 Corinthians 7:9 ει δε ουκ εγκρατευονται γαμησατωσαν κρεισσον γαρ εστιν γαμησαι η πυρουσθαι
1 Corinthians 7:9 But if they cannot contain, let them marry: for it is better to marry than to burn.
1 Corinthians 7:10 τοις δε γεγαμηκοσιν παραγγελλω ουκ εγω αλλ ο κυριος γυναικα απο ανδρος μη χωρισθηναι
1 Corinthians 7:10 And unto the married I command, yet not I, but the Lord, Let not the wife depart from her husband:
1 Corinthians 7:11 εαν δε και χωρισθη μενετω αγαμος η τω ανδρι καταλλαγητω και ανδρα γυναικα μη αφιεναι
1 Corinthians 7:11 But and if she depart, let her remain unmarried or be reconciled to her husband: and let not the husband put away his wife.
1 Corinthians 7:12 τοις δε λοιποις εγω λεγω ουχ ο κυριος ει τις αδελφος γυναικα εχει απιστον και αυτη συνευδοκει οικειν μετ αυτου μη αφιετω αυτην
1 Corinthians 7:12 But to the rest speak I, not the Lord: If any brother hath a wife that believeth not, and she be pleased to dwell with him, let him not put her away.
1 Corinthians 7:13 και γυνη ητις εχει ανδρα απιστον και αυτος συνευδοκει οικειν μετ αυτης μη αφιετω αυτον
1 Corinthians 7:13 And the woman which hath an husband that believeth not, and if he be pleased to dwell with her, let her not leave him.
1 Corinthians 7:14 ηγιασται γαρ ο ανηρ ο απιστος εν τη γυναικι και ηγιασται η γυνη η απιστος εν τω ανδρι επει αρα τα τεκνα υμων ακαθαρτα εστιν νυν δε αγια εστιν
1 Corinthians 7:14 For the unbelieving husband is sanctified by the wife, and the unbelieving wife is sanctified by the husband: else were your children unclean; but now are they holy.
1 Corinthians 7:15 ει δε ο απιστος χωριζεται χωριζεσθω ου δεδουλωται ο αδελφος η η αδελφη εν τοις τοιουτοις εν δε ειρηνη κεκληκεν ημας ο θεος
1 Corinthians 7:15 But if the unbelieving depart, let him depart. A brother or a sister is not under bondage in such cases: but God hath called us to peace.
1 Corinthians 7:16 τι γαρ οιδας γυναι ει τον ανδρα σωσεις η τι οιδας ανερ ει την γυναικα σωσεις
1 Corinthians 7:16 For what knowest thou, O wife, whether thou shalt save thy husband? or how knowest thou, O man, whether thou shalt save thy wife?
1 Corinthians 7:17 ει μη εκαστω ως εμερισεν ο θεος εκαστον ως κεκληκεν ο κυριος ουτως περιπατειτω και ουτως εν ταις εκκλησιαις πασαις διατασσομαι
1 Corinthians 7:17 But as God hath distributed to every man, as the Lord hath called every one, so let him walk. And so ordain I in all churches.
1 Corinthians 7:18 περιτετμημενος τις εκληθη μη επισπασθω εν ακροβυστια τις εκληθη μη περιτεμνεσθω
1 Corinthians 7:18 Is any man called being circumcised? let him not become uncircumcised. Is any called in uncircumcision? let him not be circumcised.
1 Corinthians 7:19 η περιτομη ουδεν εστιν και η ακροβυστια ουδεν εστιν αλλα τηρησις εντολων θεου
1 Corinthians 7:19 Circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcision is nothing, but the keeping of the commandments of God.
1 Corinthians 7:20 εκαστος εν τη κλησει η εκληθη εν ταυτη μενετω
1 Corinthians 7:20 Let every man abide in the same calling wherein he was called.
1 Corinthians 7:21 δουλος εκληθης μη σοι μελετω αλλ ει και δυνασαι ελευθερος γενεσθαι μαλλον χρησαι
1 Corinthians 7:21 Art thou called being a servant? care not for it: but if thou mayest be made free, use it rather.
1 Corinthians 7:22 ο γαρ εν κυριω κληθεις δουλος απελευθερος κυριου εστιν ομοιως και ο ελευθερος κληθεις δουλος εστιν χριστου
1 Corinthians 7:22 For he that is called in the Lord, being a servant, is the Lord's freeman: likewise also he that is called, being free, is Christ's servant.
1 Corinthians 7:23 τιμης ηγορασθητε μη γινεσθε δουλοι ανθρωπων
1 Corinthians 7:23 Ye are bought with a price; be not ye the servants of men.
1 Corinthians 7:24 εκαστος εν ω εκληθη αδελφοι εν τουτω μενετω παρα τω θεω
1 Corinthians 7:24 Brethren, let every man, wherein he is called, therein abide with God.
1 Corinthians 7:25 περι δε των παρθενων επιταγην κυριου ουκ εχω γνωμην δε διδωμι ως ηλεημενος υπο κυριου πιστος ειναι
1 Corinthians 7:25 Now concerning virgins I have no commandment of the Lord: yet I give my judgment, as one that hath obtained mercy of the Lord to be faithful.
1 Corinthians 7:26 νομιζω ουν τουτο καλον υπαρχειν δια την ενεστωσαν αναγκην οτι καλον ανθρωπω το ουτως ειναι
1 Corinthians 7:26 I suppose therefore that this is good for the present distress, I say, that it is good for a man so to be.
1 Corinthians 7:27 δεδεσαι γυναικι μη ζητει λυσιν λελυσαι απο γυναικος μη ζητει γυναικα
1 Corinthians 7:27 Art thou bound unto a wife? seek not to be loosed. Art thou loosed from a wife? seek not a wife.
1 Corinthians 7:28 εαν δε και γημης ουχ ημαρτες και εαν γημη η παρθενος ουχ ημαρτεν θλιψιν δε τη σαρκι εξουσιν οι τοιουτοι εγω δε υμων φειδομαι
1 Corinthians 7:28 But and if thou marry, thou hast not sinned; and if a virgin marry, she hath not sinned. Nevertheless such shall have trouble in the flesh: but I spare you.
1 Corinthians 7:29 τουτο δε φημι αδελφοι ο καιρος συνεσταλμενος το λοιπον εστιν ινα και οι εχοντες γυναικας ως μη εχοντες ωσιν
1 Corinthians 7:29 But this I say, brethren, the time is short: it remaineth, that both they that have wives be as though they had none;
1 Corinthians 7:30 και οι κλαιοντες ως μη κλαιοντες και οι χαιροντες ως μη χαιροντες και οι αγοραζοντες ως μη κατεχοντες
1 Corinthians 7:30 And they that weep, as though they wept not; and they that rejoice, as though they rejoiced not; and they that buy, as though they possessed not;
1 Corinthians 7:31 και οι χρωμενοι τω κοσμω τουτω ως μη καταχρωμενοι παραγει γαρ το σχημα του κοσμου τουτου
1 Corinthians 7:31 And they that use this world, as not abusing it: for the fashion of this world passeth away.
1 Corinthians 7:32 θελω δε υμας αμεριμνους ειναι ο αγαμος μεριμνα τα του κυριου πως αρεσει τω κυριω
1 Corinthians 7:32 But I would have you without carefulness. He that is unmarried careth for the things that belong to the Lord, how he may please the Lord:
1 Corinthians 7:33 ο δε γαμησας μεριμνα τα του κοσμου πως αρεσει τη γυναικι
1 Corinthians 7:33 But he that is married careth for the things that are of the world, how he may please his wife.
1 Corinthians 7:34 μεμερισται η γυνη και η παρθενος η αγαμος μεριμνα τα του κυριου ινα η αγια και σωματι και πνευματι η δε γαμησασα μεριμνα τα του κοσμου πως αρεσει τω ανδρι
1 Corinthians 7:34 There is difference also between a wife and a virgin. The unmarried woman careth for the things of the Lord, that she may be holy both in body and in spirit: but she that is married careth for the things of the world, how she may please her husband.
1 Corinthians 7:35 τουτο δε προς το υμων αυτων συμφερον λεγω ουχ ινα βροχον υμιν επιβαλω αλλα προς το ευσχημον και ευπροσεδρον τω κυριω απερισπαστως
1 Corinthians 7:35 And this I speak for your own profit; not that I may cast a snare upon you, but for that which is comely, and that ye may attend upon the Lord without distraction.
1 Corinthians 7:36 ει δε τις ασχημονειν επι την παρθενον αυτου νομιζει εαν η υπερακμος και ουτως οφειλει γινεσθαι ο θελει ποιειτω ουχ αμαρτανει γαμειτωσαν
1 Corinthians 7:36 But if any man think that he behaveth himself uncomely toward his virgin, if she pass the flower of her age, and need so require, let him do what he will, he sinneth not: let them marry.
1 Corinthians 7:37 ος δε εστηκεν εδραιος εν τη καρδια μη εχων αναγκην εξουσιαν δε εχει περι του ιδιου θεληματος και τουτο κεκρικεν εν τη καρδια αυτου του τηρειν την εαυτου παρθενον καλως ποιει
1 Corinthians 7:37 Nevertheless he that standeth stedfast in his heart, having no necessity, but hath power over his own will, and hath so decreed in his heart that he will keep his virgin, doeth well.
1 Corinthians 7:38 ωστε και ο εκγαμιζων καλως ποιει ο δε μη εκγαμιζων κρεισσον ποιει
1 Corinthians 7:38 So then he that giveth her in marriage doeth well; but he that giveth her not in marriage doeth better.
1 Corinthians 7:39 γυνη δεδεται νομω εφ οσον χρονον ζη ο ανηρ αυτης εαν δε κοιμηθη ο ανηρ αυτης ελευθερα εστιν ω θελει γαμηθηναι μονον εν κυριω
1 Corinthians 7:39 The wife is bound by the law as long as her husband liveth; but if her husband be dead, she is at liberty to be married to whom she will; only in the Lord.
1 Corinthians 7:40 μακαριωτερα δε εστιν εαν ουτως μεινη κατα την εμην γνωμην δοκω δε καγω πνευμα θεου εχειν
1 Corinthians 7:40 But she is happier if she so abide, after my judgment: and I think also that I have the Spirit of God.
1 Corinthians 8:1 περι δε των ειδωλοθυτων οιδαμεν οτι παντες γνωσιν εχομεν η γνωσις φυσιοι η δε αγαπη οικοδομει
1 Corinthians 8:1 Now as touching things offered unto idols, we know that we all have knowledge. Knowledge puffeth up, but charity edifieth.
1 Corinthians 8:2 ει δε τις δοκει ειδεναι τι ουδεπω ουδεν εγνωκεν καθως δει γνωναι
1 Corinthians 8:2 And if any man think that he knoweth any thing, he knoweth nothing yet as he ought to know.
1 Corinthians 8:3 ει δε τις αγαπα τον θεον ουτος εγνωσται υπ αυτου
1 Corinthians 8:3 But if any man love God, the same is known of him.
1 Corinthians 8:4 περι της βρωσεως ουν των ειδωλοθυτων οιδαμεν οτι ουδεν ειδωλον εν κοσμω και οτι ουδεις θεος ετερος ει μη εις
1 Corinthians 8:4 As concerning therefore the eating of those things that are offered in sacrifice unto idols, we know that an idol is nothing in the world, and that there is none other God but one.
1 Corinthians 8:5 και γαρ ειπερ εισιν λεγομενοι θεοι ειτε εν ουρανω ειτε επι της γης ωσπερ εισιν θεοι πολλοι και κυριοι πολλοι
1 Corinthians 8:5 For though there be that are called gods, whether in heaven or in earth, (as there be gods many, and lords many,)
1 Corinthians 8:6 αλλ ημιν εις θεος ο πατηρ εξ ου τα παντα και ημεις εις αυτον και εις κυριος ιησους χριστος δι ου τα παντα και ημεις δι αυτου
1 Corinthians 8:6 But to us there is but one God, the Father, of whom are all things, and we in him; and one Lord Jesus Christ, by whom are all things, and we by him.
1 Corinthians 8:7 αλλ ουκ εν πασιν η γνωσις τινες δε τη συνειδησει του ειδωλου εως αρτι ως ειδωλοθυτον εσθιουσιν και η συνειδησις αυτων ασθενης ουσα μολυνεται
1 Corinthians 8:7 Howbeit there is not in every man that knowledge: for some with conscience of the idol unto this hour eat it as a thing offered unto an idol; and their conscience being weak is defiled.
1 Corinthians 8:8 βρωμα δε ημας ου παριστησιν τω θεω ουτε γαρ εαν φαγωμεν περισσευομεν ουτε εαν μη φαγωμεν υστερουμεθα
1 Corinthians 8:8 But meat commendeth us not to God: for neither, if we eat, are we the better; neither, if we eat not, are we the worse.
1 Corinthians 8:9 βλεπετε δε μηπως η εξουσια υμων αυτη προσκομμα γενηται τοις ασθενουσιν
1 Corinthians 8:9 But take heed lest by any means this liberty of your's become a stumblingblock to them that are weak.
1 Corinthians 8:10 εαν γαρ τις ιδη σε τον εχοντα γνωσιν εν ειδωλειω κατακειμενον ουχι η συνειδησις αυτου ασθενους οντος οικοδομηθησεται εις το τα ειδωλοθυτα εσθιειν
1 Corinthians 8:10 For if any man see thee which hast knowledge sit at meat in the idol's temple, shall not the conscience of him which is weak be emboldened to eat those things which are offered to idols;
1 Corinthians 8:11 και απολειται ο ασθενων αδελφος επι τη ση γνωσει δι ον χριστος απεθανεν
1 Corinthians 8:11 And through thy knowledge shall the weak brother perish, for whom Christ died?
1 Corinthians 8:12 ουτως δε αμαρτανοντες εις τους αδελφους και τυπτοντες αυτων την συνειδησιν ασθενουσαν εις χριστον αμαρτανετε
1 Corinthians 8:12 But when ye sin so against the brethren, and wound their weak conscience, ye sin against Christ.
1 Corinthians 8:13 διοπερ ει βρωμα σκανδαλιζει τον αδελφον μου ου μη φαγω κρεα εις τον αιωνα ινα μη τον αδελφον μου σκανδαλισω
1 Corinthians 8:13 Wherefore, if meat make my brother to offend, I will eat no flesh while the world standeth, lest I make my brother to offend.
1 Corinthians 9:1 ουκ ειμι αποστολος ουκ ειμι ελευθερος ουχι ιησουν χριστον τον κυριον ημων εωρακα ου το εργον μου υμεις εστε εν κυριω
1 Corinthians 9:1 Am I not an apostle? am I not free? have I not seen Jesus Christ our Lord? are not ye my work in the Lord?
1 Corinthians 9:2 ει αλλοις ουκ ειμι αποστολος αλλα γε υμιν ειμι η γαρ σφραγις της εμης αποστολης υμεις εστε εν κυριω
1 Corinthians 9:2 If I be not an apostle unto others, yet doubtless I am to you: for the seal of mine apostleship are ye in the Lord.
1 Corinthians 9:3 η εμη απολογια τοις εμε ανακρινουσιν αυτη εστιν
1 Corinthians 9:3 Mine answer to them that do examine me is this,
1 Corinthians 9:4 μη ουκ εχομεν εξουσιαν φαγειν και πιειν
1 Corinthians 9:4 Have we not power to eat and to drink?
1 Corinthians 9:5 μη ουκ εχομεν εξουσιαν αδελφην γυναικα περιαγειν ως και οι λοιποι αποστολοι και οι αδελφοι του κυριου και κηφας
1 Corinthians 9:5 Have we not power to lead about a sister, a wife, as well as other apostles, and as the brethren of the Lord, and Cephas?
1 Corinthians 9:6 η μονος εγω και βαρναβας ουκ εχομεν εξουσιαν του μη εργαζεσθαι
1 Corinthians 9:6 Or I only and Barnabas, have not we power to forbear working?
1 Corinthians 9:7 τις στρατευεται ιδιοις οψωνιοις ποτε τις φυτευει αμπελωνα και εκ του καρπου αυτου ουκ εσθιει η τις ποιμαινει ποιμνην και εκ του γαλακτος της ποιμνης ουκ εσθιει
1 Corinthians 9:7 Who goeth a warfare any time at his own charges? who planteth a vineyard, and eateth not of the fruit thereof? or who feedeth a flock, and eateth not of the milk of the flock?
1 Corinthians 9:8 μη κατα ανθρωπον ταυτα λαλω η ουχι και ο νομος ταυτα λεγει
1 Corinthians 9:8 Say I these things as a man? or saith not the law the same also?
1 Corinthians 9:9 εν γαρ τω μωσεως νομω γεγραπται ου φιμωσεις βουν αλοωντα μη των βοων μελει τω θεω
1 Corinthians 9:9 For it is written in the law of Moses, Thou shalt not muzzle the mouth of the ox that treadeth out the corn. Doth God take care for oxen?
1 Corinthians 9:10 η δι ημας παντως λεγει δι ημας γαρ εγραφη οτι επ ελπιδι οφειλει ο αροτριων αροτριαν και ο αλοων της ελπιδος αυτου μετεχειν επ ελπιδι
1 Corinthians 9:10 Or saith he it altogether for our sakes? For our sakes, no doubt, this is written: that he that ploweth should plow in hope; and that he that thresheth in hope should be partaker of his hope.
1 Corinthians 9:11 ει ημεις υμιν τα πνευματικα εσπειραμεν μεγα ει ημεις υμων τα σαρκικα θερισομεν
1 Corinthians 9:11 If we have sown unto you spiritual things, is it a great thing if we shall reap your carnal things?
1 Corinthians 9:12 ει αλλοι της εξουσιας υμων μετεχουσιν ου μαλλον ημεις αλλ ουκ εχρησαμεθα τη εξουσια ταυτη αλλα παντα στεγομεν ινα μη εγκοπην τινα δωμεν τω ευαγγελιω του χριστου
1 Corinthians 9:12 If others be partakers of this power over you, are not we rather? Nevertheless we have not used this power; but suffer all things, lest we should hinder the gospel of Christ.
1 Corinthians 9:13 ουκ οιδατε οτι οι τα ιερα εργαζομενοι εκ του ιερου εσθιουσιν οι τω θυσιαστηριω προσεδρευοντες τω θυσιαστηριω συμμεριζονται
1 Corinthians 9:13 Do ye not know that they which minister about holy things live of the things of the temple? and they which wait at the altar are partakers with the altar?
1 Corinthians 9:14 ουτως και ο κυριος διεταξεν τοις το ευαγγελιον καταγγελλουσιν εκ του ευαγγελιου ζην
1 Corinthians 9:14 Even so hath the Lord ordained that they which preach the gospel should live of the gospel.
1 Corinthians 9:15 εγω δε ουδενι εχρησαμην τουτων ουκ εγραψα δε ταυτα ινα ουτως γενηται εν εμοι καλον γαρ μοι μαλλον αποθανειν η το καυχημα μου ινα τις κενωση
1 Corinthians 9:15 But I have used none of these things: neither have I written these things, that it should be so done unto me: for it were better for me to die, than that any man should make my glorying void.
1 Corinthians 9:16 εαν γαρ ευαγγελιζωμαι ουκ εστιν μοι καυχημα αναγκη γαρ μοι επικειται ουαι δε μοι εστιν εαν μη ευαγγελιζωμαι
1 Corinthians 9:16 For though I preach the gospel, I have nothing to glory of: for necessity is laid upon me; yea, woe is unto me, if I preach not the gospel!
1 Corinthians 9:17 ει γαρ εκων τουτο πρασσω μισθον εχω ει δε ακων οικονομιαν πεπιστευμαι
1 Corinthians 9:17 For if I do this thing willingly, I have a reward: but if against my will, a dispensation of the gospel is committed unto me.
1 Corinthians 9:18 τις ουν μοι εστιν ο μισθος ινα ευαγγελιζομενος αδαπανον θησω το ευαγγελιον του χριστου εις το μη καταχρησασθαι τη εξουσια μου εν τω ευαγγελιω
1 Corinthians 9:18 What is my reward then? Verily that, when I preach the gospel, I may make the gospel of Christ without charge, that I abuse not my power in the gospel.
1 Corinthians 9:19 ελευθερος γαρ ων εκ παντων πασιν εμαυτον εδουλωσα ινα τους πλειονας κερδησω
1 Corinthians 9:19 For though I be free from all men, yet have I made myself servant unto all, that I might gain the more.
1 Corinthians 9:20 και εγενομην τοις ιουδαιοις ως ιουδαιος ινα ιουδαιους κερδησω τοις υπο νομον ως υπο νομον ινα τους υπο νομον κερδησω
1 Corinthians 9:20 And unto the Jews I became as a Jew, that I might gain the Jews; to them that are under the law, as under the law, that I might gain them that are under the law;
1 Corinthians 9:21 τοις ανομοις ως ανομος μη ων ανομος θεω αλλ εννομος χριστω ινα κερδησω ανομους
1 Corinthians 9:21 To them that are without law, as without law, (being not without law to God, but under the law to Christ,) that I might gain them that are without law.
1 Corinthians 9:22 εγενομην τοις ασθενεσιν ως ασθενης ινα τους ασθενεις κερδησω τοις πασιν γεγονα τα παντα ινα παντως τινας σωσω
1 Corinthians 9:22 To the weak became I as weak, that I might gain the weak: I am made all things to all men, that I might by all means save some.
1 Corinthians 9:23 τουτο δε ποιω δια το ευαγγελιον ινα συγκοινωνος αυτου γενωμαι
1 Corinthians 9:23 And this I do for the gospel's sake, that I might be partaker thereof with you.
1 Corinthians 9:24 ουκ οιδατε οτι οι εν σταδιω τρεχοντες παντες μεν τρεχουσιν εις δε λαμβανει το βραβειον ουτως τρεχετε ινα καταλαβητε
1 Corinthians 9:24 Know ye not that they which run in a race run all, but one receiveth the prize? So run, that ye may obtain.
1 Corinthians 9:25 πας δε ο αγωνιζομενος παντα εγκρατευεται εκεινοι μεν ουν ινα φθαρτον στεφανον λαβωσιν ημεις δε αφθαρτον
1 Corinthians 9:25 And every man that striveth for the mastery is temperate in all things. Now they do it to obtain a corruptible crown; but we an incorruptible.
1 Corinthians 9:26 εγω τοινυν ουτως τρεχω ως ουκ αδηλως ουτως πυκτευω ως ουκ αερα δερων
1 Corinthians 9:26 I therefore so run, not as uncertainly; so fight I, not as one that beateth the air:
1 Corinthians 9:27 αλλ υπωπιαζω μου το σωμα και δουλαγωγω μηπως αλλοις κηρυξας αυτος αδοκιμος γενωμαι
1 Corinthians 9:27 But I keep under my body, and bring it into subjection: lest that by any means, when I have preached to others, I myself should be a castaway.
1 Corinthians 10:1 ου θελω δε υμας αγνοειν αδελφοι οτι οι πατερες ημων παντες υπο την νεφελην ησαν και παντες δια της θαλασσης διηλθον
1 Corinthians 10:1 Moreover, brethren, I would not that ye should be ignorant, how that all our fathers were under the cloud, and all passed through the sea;
1 Corinthians 10:2 και παντες εις τον μωσην εβαπτισαντο εν τη νεφελη και εν τη θαλασση
1 Corinthians 10:2 And were all baptized unto Moses in the cloud and in the sea;
1 Corinthians 10:3 και παντες το αυτο βρωμα πνευματικον εφαγον
1 Corinthians 10:3 And did all eat the same spiritual meat;
1 Corinthians 10:4 και παντες το αυτο πομα πνευματικον επιον επινον γαρ εκ πνευματικης ακολουθουσης πετρας η δε πετρα ην ο χριστος
1 Corinthians 10:4 And did all drink the same spiritual drink: for they drank of that spiritual Rock that followed them: and that Rock was Christ.
1 Corinthians 10:5 αλλ ουκ εν τοις πλειοσιν αυτων ευδοκησεν ο θεος κατεστρωθησαν γαρ εν τη ερημω
1 Corinthians 10:5 But with many of them God was not well pleased: for they were overthrown in the wilderness.
1 Corinthians 10:6 ταυτα δε τυποι ημων εγενηθησαν εις το μη ειναι ημας επιθυμητας κακων καθως κακεινοι επεθυμησαν
1 Corinthians 10:6 Now these things were our examples, to the intent we should not lust after evil things, as they also lusted.
1 Corinthians 10:7 μηδε ειδωλολατραι γινεσθε καθως τινες αυτων ως γεγραπται εκαθισεν ο λαος φαγειν και πιειν και ανεστησαν παιζειν
1 Corinthians 10:7 Neither be ye idolaters, as were some of them; as it is written, The people sat down to eat and drink, and rose up to play.
1 Corinthians 10:8 μηδε πορνευωμεν καθως τινες αυτων επορνευσαν και επεσον εν μια ημερα εικοσιτρεις χιλιαδες
1 Corinthians 10:8 Neither let us commit fornication, as some of them committed, and fell in one day three and twenty thousand.
1 Corinthians 10:9 μηδε εκπειραζωμεν τον χριστον καθως και τινες αυτων επειρασαν και υπο των οφεων απωλοντο
1 Corinthians 10:9 Neither let us tempt Christ, as some of them also tempted, and were destroyed of serpents.
1 Corinthians 10:10 μηδε γογγυζετε καθως και τινες αυτων εγογγυσαν και απωλοντο υπο του ολοθρευτου
1 Corinthians 10:10 Neither murmur ye, as some of them also murmured, and were destroyed of the destroyer.
1 Corinthians 10:11 ταυτα δε παντα τυποι συνεβαινον εκεινοις εγραφη δε προς νουθεσιαν ημων εις ους τα τελη των αιωνων κατηντησεν
1 Corinthians 10:11 Now all these things happened unto them for ensamples: and they are written for our admonition, upon whom the ends of the world are come.
1 Corinthians 10:12 ωστε ο δοκων εσταναι βλεπετω μη πεση
1 Corinthians 10:12 Wherefore let him that thinketh he standeth take heed lest he fall.
1 Corinthians 10:13 πειρασμος υμας ουκ ειληφεν ει μη ανθρωπινος πιστος δε ο θεος ος ουκ εασει υμας πειρασθηναι υπερ ο δυνασθε αλλα ποιησει συν τω πειρασμω και την εκβασιν του δυνασθαι υμας υπενεγκειν
1 Corinthians 10:13 There hath no temptation taken you but such as is common to man: but God is faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above that ye are able; but will with the temptation also make a way to escape, that ye may be able to bear it.
1 Corinthians 10:14 διοπερ αγαπητοι μου φευγετε απο της ειδωλολατρειας
1 Corinthians 10:14 Wherefore, my dearly beloved, flee from idolatry.
1 Corinthians 10:15 ως φρονιμοις λεγω κρινατε υμεις ο φημι
1 Corinthians 10:15 I speak as to wise men; judge ye what I say.
1 Corinthians 10:16 το ποτηριον της ευλογιας ο ευλογουμεν ουχι κοινωνια του αιματος του χριστου εστιν τον αρτον ον κλωμεν ουχι κοινωνια του σωματος του χριστου εστιν
1 Corinthians 10:16 The cup of blessing which we bless, is it not the communion of the blood of Christ? The bread which we break, is it not the communion of the body of Christ?
1 Corinthians 10:17 οτι εις αρτος εν σωμα οι πολλοι εσμεν οι γαρ παντες εκ του ενος αρτου μετεχομεν
1 Corinthians 10:17 For we being many are one bread, and one body: for we are all partakers of that one bread.
1 Corinthians 10:18 βλεπετε τον ισραηλ κατα σαρκα ουχι οι εσθιοντες τας θυσιας κοινωνοι του θυσιαστηριου εισιν
1 Corinthians 10:18 Behold Israel after the flesh: are not they which eat of the sacrifices partakers of the altar?
1 Corinthians 10:19 τι ουν φημι οτι ειδωλον τι εστιν η οτι ειδωλοθυτον τι εστιν
1 Corinthians 10:19 What say I then? that the idol is any thing, or that which is offered in sacrifice to idols is any thing?
1 Corinthians 10:20 αλλ οτι α θυει τα εθνη δαιμονιοις θυει και ου θεω ου θελω δε υμας κοινωνους των δαιμονιων γινεσθαι
1 Corinthians 10:20 But I say, that the things which the Gentiles sacrifice, they sacrifice to devils, and not to God: and I would not that ye should have fellowship with devils.
1 Corinthians 10:21 ου δυνασθε ποτηριον κυριου πινειν και ποτηριον δαιμονιων ου δυνασθε τραπεζης κυριου μετεχειν και τραπεζης δαιμονιων
1 Corinthians 10:21 Ye cannot drink the cup of the Lord, and the cup of devils: ye cannot be partakers of the Lord's table, and of the table of devils.
1 Corinthians 10:22 η παραζηλουμεν τον κυριον μη ισχυροτεροι αυτου εσμεν
1 Corinthians 10:22 Do we provoke the Lord to jealousy? are we stronger than he?
1 Corinthians 10:23 παντα μοι εξεστιν αλλ ου παντα συμφερει παντα μοι εξεστιν αλλ ου παντα οικοδομει
1 Corinthians 10:23 All things are lawful for me, but all things are not expedient: all things are lawful for me, but all things edify not.
1 Corinthians 10:24 μηδεις το εαυτου ζητειτω αλλα το του ετερου εκαστος
1 Corinthians 10:24 Let no man seek his own, but every man another's wealth.
1 Corinthians 10:25 παν το εν μακελλω πωλουμενον εσθιετε μηδεν ανακρινοντες δια την συνειδησιν
1 Corinthians 10:25 Whatsoever is sold in the shambles, that eat, asking no question for conscience sake:
1 Corinthians 10:26 του γαρ κυριου η γη και το πληρωμα αυτης
1 Corinthians 10:26 For the earth is the Lord's, and the fulness thereof.
1 Corinthians 10:27 ει δε τις καλει υμας των απιστων και θελετε πορευεσθαι παν το παρατιθεμενον υμιν εσθιετε μηδεν ανακρινοντες δια την συνειδησιν
1 Corinthians 10:27 If any of them that believe not bid you to a feast, and ye be disposed to go; whatsoever is set before you, eat, asking no question for conscience sake.
1 Corinthians 10:28 εαν δε τις υμιν ειπη τουτο ειδωλοθυτον εστιν μη εσθιετε δι εκεινον τον μηνυσαντα και την συνειδησιν του γαρ κυριου η γη και το πληρωμα αυτης
1 Corinthians 10:28 But if any man say unto you, This is offered in sacrifice unto idols, eat not for his sake that shewed it, and for conscience sake: for the earth is the Lord's, and the fulness thereof:
1 Corinthians 10:29 συνειδησιν δε λεγω ουχι την εαυτου αλλα την του ετερου ινα τι γαρ η ελευθερια μου κρινεται υπο αλλης συνειδησεως
1 Corinthians 10:29 Conscience, I say, not thine own, but of the other: for why is my liberty judged of another man's conscience?
1 Corinthians 10:30 ει δε εγω χαριτι μετεχω τι βλασφημουμαι υπερ ου εγω ευχαριστω
1 Corinthians 10:30 For if I by grace be a partaker, why am I evil spoken of for that for which I give thanks?
1 Corinthians 10:31 ειτε ουν εσθιετε ειτε πινετε ειτε τι ποιειτε παντα εις δοξαν θεου ποιειτε
1 Corinthians 10:31 Whether therefore ye eat, or drink, or whatsoever ye do, do all to the glory of God.
1 Corinthians 10:32 απροσκοποι γινεσθε και ιουδαιοις και ελλησιν και τη εκκλησια του θεου
1 Corinthians 10:32 Give none offence, neither to the Jews, nor to the Gentiles, nor to the church of God:
1 Corinthians 10:33 καθως καγω παντα πασιν αρεσκω μη ζητων το εμαυτου συμφερον αλλα το των πολλων ινα σωθωσιν
1 Corinthians 10:33 Even as I please all men in all things, not seeking mine own profit, but the profit of many, that they may be saved.
1 Corinthians 11:1 μιμηται μου γινεσθε καθως καγω χριστου
1 Corinthians 11:1 Be ye followers of me, even as I also am of Christ.
1 Corinthians 11:2 επαινω δε υμας αδελφοι οτι παντα μου μεμνησθε και καθως παρεδωκα υμιν τας παραδοσεις κατεχετε
1 Corinthians 11:2 Now I praise you, brethren, that ye remember me in all things, and keep the ordinances, as I delivered them to you.
1 Corinthians 11:3 θελω δε υμας ειδεναι οτι παντος ανδρος η κεφαλη ο χριστος εστιν κεφαλη δε γυναικος ο ανηρ κεφαλη δε χριστου ο θεος
1 Corinthians 11:3 But I would have you know, that the head of every man is Christ; and the head of the woman is the man; and the head of Christ is God.
1 Corinthians 11:4 πας ανηρ προσευχομενος η προφητευων κατα κεφαλης εχων καταισχυνει την κεφαλην αυτου
1 Corinthians 11:4 Every man praying or prophesying, having his head covered, dishonoureth his head.
1 Corinthians 11:5 πασα δε γυνη προσευχομενη η προφητευουσα ακατακαλυπτω τη κεφαλη καταισχυνει την κεφαλην εαυτης εν γαρ εστιν και το αυτο τη εξυρημενη
1 Corinthians 11:5 But every woman that prayeth or prophesieth with her head uncovered dishonoureth her head: for that is even all one as if she were shaven.
1 Corinthians 11:6 ει γαρ ου κατακαλυπτεται γυνη και κειρασθω ει δε αισχρον γυναικι το κειρασθαι η ξυρασθαι κατακαλυπτεσθω
1 Corinthians 11:6 For if the woman be not covered, let her also be shorn: but if it be a shame for a woman to be shorn or shaven, let her be covered.
1 Corinthians 11:7 ανηρ μεν γαρ ουκ οφειλει κατακαλυπτεσθαι την κεφαλην εικων και δοξα θεου υπαρχων γυνη δε δοξα ανδρος εστιν
1 Corinthians 11:7 For a man indeed ought not to cover his head, forasmuch as he is the image and glory of God: but the woman is the glory of the man.
1 Corinthians 11:8 ου γαρ εστιν ανηρ εκ γυναικος αλλα γυνη εξ ανδρος
1 Corinthians 11:8 For the man is not of the woman: but the woman of the man.
1 Corinthians 11:9 και γαρ ουκ εκτισθη ανηρ δια την γυναικα αλλα γυνη δια τον ανδρα
1 Corinthians 11:9 Neither was the man created for the woman; but the woman for the man.
1 Corinthians 11:10 δια τουτο οφειλει η γυνη εξουσιαν εχειν επι της κεφαλης δια τους αγγελους
1 Corinthians 11:10 For this cause ought the woman to have power on her head because of the angels.
1 Corinthians 11:11 πλην ουτε ανηρ χωρις γυναικος ουτε γυνη χωρις ανδρος εν κυριω
1 Corinthians 11:11 Nevertheless neither is the man without the woman, neither the woman without the man, in the Lord.
1 Corinthians 11:12 ωσπερ γαρ η γυνη εκ του ανδρος ουτως και ο ανηρ δια της γυναικος τα δε παντα εκ του θεου
1 Corinthians 11:12 For as the woman is of the man, even so is the man also by the woman; but all things of God.
1 Corinthians 11:13 εν υμιν αυτοις κρινατε πρεπον εστιν γυναικα ακατακαλυπτον τω θεω προσευχεσθαι
1 Corinthians 11:13 Judge in yourselves: is it comely that a woman pray unto God uncovered?
1 Corinthians 11:14 η ουδε αυτη η φυσις διδασκει υμας οτι ανηρ μεν εαν κομα ατιμια αυτω εστιν
1 Corinthians 11:14 Doth not even nature itself teach you, that, if a man have long hair, it is a shame unto him?
1 Corinthians 11:15 γυνη δε εαν κομα δοξα αυτη εστιν οτι η κομη αντι περιβολαιου δεδοται αυτη
1 Corinthians 11:15 But if a woman have long hair, it is a glory to her: for her hair is given her for a covering.
1 Corinthians 11:16 ει δε τις δοκει φιλονεικος ειναι ημεις τοιαυτην συνηθειαν ουκ εχομεν ουδε αι εκκλησιαι του θεου
1 Corinthians 11:16 But if any man seem to be contentious, we have no such custom, neither the churches of God.
1 Corinthians 11:17 τουτο δε παραγγελλων ουκ επαινω οτι ουκ εις το κρειττον αλλ εις το ηττον συνερχεσθε
1 Corinthians 11:17 Now in this that I declare unto you I praise you not, that ye come together not for the better, but for the worse.
1 Corinthians 11:18 πρωτον μεν γαρ συνερχομενων υμων εν τη εκκλησια ακουω σχισματα εν υμιν υπαρχειν και μερος τι πιστευω
1 Corinthians 11:18 For first of all, when ye come together in the church, I hear that there be divisions among you; and I partly believe it.
1 Corinthians 11:19 δει γαρ και αιρεσεις εν υμιν ειναι ινα οι δοκιμοι φανεροι γενωνται εν υμιν
1 Corinthians 11:19 For there must be also heresies among you, that they which are approved may be made manifest among you.
1 Corinthians 11:20 συνερχομενων ουν υμων επι το αυτο ουκ εστιν κυριακον δειπνον φαγειν
1 Corinthians 11:20 When ye come together therefore into one place, this is not to eat the Lord's supper.
1 Corinthians 11:21 εκαστος γαρ το ιδιον δειπνον προλαμβανει εν τω φαγειν και ος μεν πεινα ος δε μεθυει
1 Corinthians 11:21 For in eating every one taketh before other his own supper: and one is hungry, and another is drunken.
1 Corinthians 11:22 μη γαρ οικιας ουκ εχετε εις το εσθιειν και πινειν η της εκκλησιας του θεου καταφρονειτε και καταισχυνετε τους μη εχοντας τι υμιν ειπω επαινεσω υμας εν τουτω ουκ επαινω
1 Corinthians 11:22 What? have ye not houses to eat and to drink in? or despise ye the church of God, and shame them that have not? What shall I say to you? shall I praise you in this? I praise you not.
1 Corinthians 11:23 εγω γαρ παρελαβον απο του κυριου ο και παρεδωκα υμιν οτι ο κυριος ιησους εν τη νυκτι η παρεδιδοτο ελαβεν αρτον
1 Corinthians 11:23 For I have received of the Lord that which also I delivered unto you, That the Lord Jesus the same night in which he was betrayed took bread:
1 Corinthians 11:24 και ευχαριστησας εκλασεν και ειπεν λαβετε φαγετε τουτο μου εστιν το σωμα το υπερ υμων κλωμενον τουτο ποιειτε εις την εμην αναμνησιν
1 Corinthians 11:24 And when he had given thanks, he brake it, and said, Take, eat: this is my body, which is broken for you: this do in remembrance of me.
1 Corinthians 11:25 ωσαυτως και το ποτηριον μετα το δειπνησαι λεγων τουτο το ποτηριον η καινη διαθηκη εστιν εν τω εμω αιματι τουτο ποιειτε οσακις αν πινητε εις την εμην αναμνησιν
1 Corinthians 11:25 After the same manner also he took the cup, when he had supped, saying, This cup is the new testament in my blood: this do ye, as oft as ye drink it, in remembrance of me.
1 Corinthians 11:26 οσακις γαρ αν εσθιητε τον αρτον τουτον και το ποτηριον τουτο πινητε τον θανατον του κυριου καταγγελλετε αχρις ου αν ελθη
1 Corinthians 11:26 For as often as ye eat this bread, and drink this cup, ye do shew the Lord's death till he come.
1 Corinthians 11:27 ωστε ος αν εσθιη τον αρτον τουτον η πινη το ποτηριον του κυριου αναξιως ενοχος εσται του σωματος και αιματος του κυριου
1 Corinthians 11:27 Wherefore whosoever shall eat this bread, and drink this cup of the Lord, unworthily, shall be guilty of the body and blood of the Lord.
1 Corinthians 11:28 δοκιμαζετω δε ανθρωπος εαυτον και ουτως εκ του αρτου εσθιετω και εκ του ποτηριου πινετω
1 Corinthians 11:28 But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of that bread, and drink of that cup.
1 Corinthians 11:29 ο γαρ εσθιων και πινων αναξιως κριμα εαυτω εσθιει και πινει μη διακρινων το σωμα του κυριου
1 Corinthians 11:29 For he that eateth and drinketh unworthily, eateth and drinketh damnation to himself, not discerning the Lord's body.
1 Corinthians 11:30 δια τουτο εν υμιν πολλοι ασθενεις και αρρωστοι και κοιμωνται ικανοι
1 Corinthians 11:30 For this cause many are weak and sickly among you, and many sleep.
1 Corinthians 11:31 ει γαρ εαυτους διεκρινομεν ουκ αν εκρινομεθα
1 Corinthians 11:31 For if we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged.
1 Corinthians 11:32 κρινομενοι δε υπο κυριου παιδευομεθα ινα μη συν τω κοσμω κατακριθωμεν
1 Corinthians 11:32 But when we are judged, we are chastened of the Lord, that we should not be condemned with the world.
1 Corinthians 11:33 ωστε αδελφοι μου συνερχομενοι εις το φαγειν αλληλους εκδεχεσθε
1 Corinthians 11:33 Wherefore, my brethren, when ye come together to eat, tarry one for another.
1 Corinthians 11:34 ει δε τις πεινα εν οικω εσθιετω ινα μη εις κριμα συνερχησθε τα δε λοιπα ως αν ελθω διαταξομαι
1 Corinthians 11:34 And if any man hunger, let him eat at home; that ye come not together unto condemnation. And the rest will I set in order when I come.
1 Corinthians 12:1 περι δε των πνευματικων αδελφοι ου θελω υμας αγνοειν
1 Corinthians 12:1 Now concerning spiritual gifts, brethren, I would not have you ignorant.
1 Corinthians 12:2 οιδατε οτι εθνη ητε προς τα ειδωλα τα αφωνα ως αν ηγεσθε απαγομενοι
1 Corinthians 12:2 Ye know that ye were Gentiles, carried away unto these dumb idols, even as ye were led.
1 Corinthians 12:3 διο γνωριζω υμιν οτι ουδεις εν πνευματι θεου λαλων λεγει αναθεμα ιησουν και ουδεις δυναται ειπειν κυριον ιησουν ει μη εν πνευματι αγιω
1 Corinthians 12:3 Wherefore I give you to understand, that no man speaking by the Spirit of God calleth Jesus accursed: and that no man can say that Jesus is the Lord, but by the Holy Ghost.
1 Corinthians 12:4 διαιρεσεις δε χαρισματων εισιν το δε αυτο πνευμα
1 Corinthians 12:4 Now there are diversities of gifts, but the same Spirit.
1 Corinthians 12:5 και διαιρεσεις διακονιων εισιν και ο αυτος κυριος
1 Corinthians 12:5 And there are differences of administrations, but the same Lord.
1 Corinthians 12:6 και διαιρεσεις ενεργηματων εισιν ο δε αυτος εστιν θεος ο ενεργων τα παντα εν πασιν
1 Corinthians 12:6 And there are diversities of operations, but it is the same God which worketh all in all.
1 Corinthians 12:7 εκαστω δε διδοται η φανερωσις του πνευματος προς το συμφερον
1 Corinthians 12:7 But the manifestation of the Spirit is given to every man to profit withal.
1 Corinthians 12:8 ω μεν γαρ δια του πνευματος διδοται λογος σοφιας αλλω δε λογος γνωσεως κατα το αυτο πνευμα
1 Corinthians 12:8 For to one is given by the Spirit the word of wisdom; to another the word of knowledge by the same Spirit;
1 Corinthians 12:9 ετερω δε πιστις εν τω αυτω πνευματι αλλω δε χαρισματα ιαματων εν τω αυτω πνευματι
1 Corinthians 12:9 To another faith by the same Spirit; to another the gifts of healing by the same Spirit;
1 Corinthians 12:10 αλλω δε ενεργηματα δυναμεων αλλω δε προφητεια αλλω δε διακρισεις πνευματων ετερω δε γενη γλωσσων αλλω δε ερμηνεια γλωσσων
1 Corinthians 12:10 To another the working of miracles; to another prophecy; to another discerning of spirits; to another divers kinds of tongues; to another the interpretation of tongues:
1 Corinthians 12:11 παντα δε ταυτα ενεργει το εν και το αυτο πνευμα διαιρουν ιδια εκαστω καθως βουλεται
1 Corinthians 12:11 But all these worketh that one and the selfsame Spirit, dividing to every man severally as he will.
1 Corinthians 12:12 καθαπερ γαρ το σωμα εν εστιν και μελη εχει πολλα παντα δε τα μελη του σωματος του ενος πολλα οντα εν εστιν σωμα ουτως και ο χριστος
1 Corinthians 12:12 For as the body is one, and hath many members, and all the members of that one body, being many, are one body: so also is Christ.
1 Corinthians 12:13 και γαρ εν ενι πνευματι ημεις παντες εις εν σωμα εβαπτισθημεν ειτε ιουδαιοι ειτε ελληνες ειτε δουλοι ειτε ελευθεροι και παντες εις εν πνευμα εποτισθημεν
1 Corinthians 12:13 For by one Spirit are we all baptized into one body, whether we be Jews or Gentiles, whether we be bond or free; and have been all made to drink into one Spirit.
1 Corinthians 12:14 και γαρ το σωμα ουκ εστιν εν μελος αλλα πολλα
1 Corinthians 12:14 For the body is not one member, but many.
1 Corinthians 12:15 εαν ειπη ο πους οτι ουκ ειμι χειρ ουκ ειμι εκ του σωματος ου παρα τουτο ουκ εστιν εκ του σωματος
1 Corinthians 12:15 If the foot shall say, Because I am not the hand, I am not of the body; is it therefore not of the body?
1 Corinthians 12:16 και εαν ειπη το ους οτι ουκ ειμι οφθαλμος ουκ ειμι εκ του σωματος ου παρα τουτο ουκ εστιν εκ του σωματος
1 Corinthians 12:16 And if the ear shall say, Because I am not the eye, I am not of the body; is it therefore not of the body?
1 Corinthians 12:17 ει ολον το σωμα οφθαλμος που η ακοη ει ολον ακοη που η οσφρησις
1 Corinthians 12:17 If the whole body were an eye, where were the hearing? If the whole were hearing, where were the smelling?
1 Corinthians 12:18 νυνι δε ο θεος εθετο τα μελη εν εκαστον αυτων εν τω σωματι καθως ηθελησεν
1 Corinthians 12:18 But now hath God set the members every one of them in the body, as it hath pleased him.
1 Corinthians 12:19 ει δε ην τα παντα εν μελος που το σωμα
1 Corinthians 12:19 And if they were all one member, where were the body?
1 Corinthians 12:20 νυν δε πολλα μεν μελη εν δε σωμα
1 Corinthians 12:20 But now are they many members, yet but one body.
1 Corinthians 12:21 ου δυναται δε οφθαλμος ειπειν τη χειρι χρειαν σου ουκ εχω η παλιν η κεφαλη τοις ποσιν χρειαν υμων ουκ εχω
1 Corinthians 12:21 And the eye cannot say unto the hand, I have no need of thee: nor again the head to the feet, I have no need of you.
1 Corinthians 12:22 αλλα πολλω μαλλον τα δοκουντα μελη του σωματος ασθενεστερα υπαρχειν αναγκαια εστιν
1 Corinthians 12:22 Nay, much more those members of the body, which seem to be more feeble, are necessary:
1 Corinthians 12:23 και α δοκουμεν ατιμοτερα ειναι του σωματος τουτοις τιμην περισσοτεραν περιτιθεμεν και τα ασχημονα ημων ευσχημοσυνην περισσοτεραν εχει
1 Corinthians 12:23 And those members of the body, which we think to be less honourable, upon these we bestow more abundant honour; and our uncomely parts have more abundant comeliness.
1 Corinthians 12:24 τα δε ευσχημονα ημων ου χρειαν εχει αλλ ο θεος συνεκερασεν το σωμα τω υστερουντι περισσοτεραν δους τιμην
1 Corinthians 12:24 For our comely parts have no need: but God hath tempered the body together, having given more abundant honour to that part which lacked.
1 Corinthians 12:25 ινα μη η σχισμα εν τω σωματι αλλα το αυτο υπερ αλληλων μεριμνωσιν τα μελη
1 Corinthians 12:25 That there should be no schism in the body; but that the members should have the same care one for another.
1 Corinthians 12:26 και ειτε πασχει εν μελος συμπασχει παντα τα μελη ειτε δοξαζεται εν μελος συγχαιρει παντα τα μελη
1 Corinthians 12:26 And whether one member suffer, all the members suffer with it; or one member be honoured, all the members rejoice with it.
1 Corinthians 12:27 υμεις δε εστε σωμα χριστου και μελη εκ μερους
1 Corinthians 12:27 Now ye are the body of Christ, and members in particular.
1 Corinthians 12:28 και ους μεν εθετο ο θεος εν τη εκκλησια πρωτον αποστολους δευτερον προφητας τριτον διδασκαλους επειτα δυναμεις ειτα χαρισματα ιαματων αντιληψεις κυβερνησεις γενη γλωσσων
1 Corinthians 12:28 And God hath set some in the church, first apostles, secondarily prophets, thirdly teachers, after that miracles, then gifts of healings, helps, governments, diversities of tongues.
1 Corinthians 12:29 μη παντες αποστολοι μη παντες προφηται μη παντες διδασκαλοι μη παντες δυναμεις
1 Corinthians 12:29 Are all apostles? are all prophets? are all teachers? are all workers of miracles?
1 Corinthians 12:30 μη παντες χαρισματα εχουσιν ιαματων μη παντες γλωσσαις λαλουσιν μη παντες διερμηνευουσιν
1 Corinthians 12:30 Have all the gifts of healing? do all speak with tongues? do all interpret?
1 Corinthians 12:31 ζηλουτε δε τα χαρισματα τα κρειττονα και ετι καθ υπερβολην οδον υμιν δεικνυμι
1 Corinthians 12:31 But covet earnestly the best gifts: and yet shew I unto you a more excellent way.
1 Corinthians 13:1 εαν ταις γλωσσαις των ανθρωπων λαλω και των αγγελων αγαπην δε μη εχω γεγονα χαλκος ηχων η κυμβαλον αλαλαζον
1 Corinthians 13:1 Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not charity, I am become as sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal.
1 Corinthians 13:2 και εαν εχω προφητειαν και ειδω τα μυστηρια παντα και πασαν την γνωσιν και εαν εχω πασαν την πιστιν ωστε ορη μεθιστανειν αγαπην δε μη εχω ουθεν ειμι
1 Corinthians 13:2 And though I have the gift of prophecy, and understand all mysteries, and all knowledge; and though I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains, and have not charity, I am nothing.
1 Corinthians 13:3 και εαν ψωμισω παντα τα υπαρχοντα μου και εαν παραδω το σωμα μου ινα καυθησωμαι αγαπην δε μη εχω ουδεν ωφελουμαι
1 Corinthians 13:3 And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned, and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing.
1 Corinthians 13:4 η αγαπη μακροθυμει χρηστευεται η αγαπη ου ζηλοι η αγαπη ου περπερευεται ου φυσιουται
1 Corinthians 13:4 Charity suffereth long, and is kind; charity envieth not; charity vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up,
1 Corinthians 13:5 ουκ ασχημονει ου ζητει τα εαυτης ου παροξυνεται ου λογιζεται το κακον
1 Corinthians 13:5 Doth not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil;
1 Corinthians 13:6 ου χαιρει επι τη αδικια συγχαιρει δε τη αληθεια
1 Corinthians 13:6 Rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth;
1 Corinthians 13:7 παντα στεγει παντα πιστευει παντα ελπιζει παντα υπομενει
1 Corinthians 13:7 Beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things.
1 Corinthians 13:8 η αγαπη ουδεποτε εκπιπτει ειτε δε προφητειαι καταργηθησονται ειτε γλωσσαι παυσονται ειτε γνωσις καταργηθησεται
1 Corinthians 13:8 Charity never faileth: but whether there be prophecies, they shall fail; whether there be tongues, they shall cease; whether there be knowledge, it shall vanish away.
1 Corinthians 13:9 εκ μερους γαρ γινωσκομεν και εκ μερους προφητευομεν
1 Corinthians 13:9 For we know in part, and we prophesy in part.
1 Corinthians 13:10 οταν δε ελθη το τελειον τοτε το εκ μερους καταργηθησεται
1 Corinthians 13:10 But when that which is perfect is come, then that which is in part shall be done away.
1 Corinthians 13:11 οτε ημην νηπιος ως νηπιος ελαλουν ως νηπιος εφρονουν ως νηπιος ελογιζομην οτε δε γεγονα ανηρ κατηργηκα τα του νηπιου
1 Corinthians 13:11 When I was a child, I spake as a child, I understood as a child, I thought as a child: but when I became a man, I put away childish things.
1 Corinthians 13:12 βλεπομεν γαρ αρτι δι εσοπτρου εν αινιγματι τοτε δε προσωπον προς προσωπον αρτι γινωσκω εκ μερους τοτε δε επιγνωσομαι καθως και επεγνωσθην
1 Corinthians 13:12 For now we see through a glass, darkly; but then face to face: now I know in part; but then shall I know even as also I am known.
1 Corinthians 13:13 νυνι δε μενει πιστις ελπις αγαπη τα τρια ταυτα μειζων δε τουτων η αγαπη
1 Corinthians 13:13 And now abideth faith, hope, charity, these three; but the greatest of these is charity.
1 Corinthians 14:1 διωκετε την αγαπην ζηλουτε δε τα πνευματικα μαλλον δε ινα προφητευητε
1 Corinthians 14:1 Follow after charity, and desire spiritual gifts, but rather that ye may prophesy.
1 Corinthians 14:2 ο γαρ λαλων γλωσση ουκ ανθρωποις λαλει αλλα τω θεω ουδεις γαρ ακουει πνευματι δε λαλει μυστηρια
1 Corinthians 14:2 For he that speaketh in an unknown tongue speaketh not unto men, but unto God: for no man understandeth him; howbeit in the spirit he speaketh mysteries.
1 Corinthians 14:3 ο δε προφητευων ανθρωποις λαλει οικοδομην και παρακλησιν και παραμυθιαν
1 Corinthians 14:3 But he that prophesieth speaketh unto men to edification, and exhortation, and comfort.
1 Corinthians 14:4 ο λαλων γλωσση εαυτον οικοδομει ο δε προφητευων εκκλησιαν οικοδομει
1 Corinthians 14:4 He that speaketh in an unknown tongue edifieth himself; but he that prophesieth edifieth the church.
1 Corinthians 14:5 θελω δε παντας υμας λαλειν γλωσσαις μαλλον δε ινα προφητευητε μειζων γαρ ο προφητευων η ο λαλων γλωσσαις εκτος ει μη διερμηνευη ινα η εκκλησια οικοδομην λαβη
1 Corinthians 14:5 I would that ye all spake with tongues but rather that ye prophesied: for greater is he that prophesieth than he that speaketh with tongues, except he interpret, that the church may receive edifying.
1 Corinthians 14:6 νυνι δε αδελφοι εαν ελθω προς υμας γλωσσαις λαλων τι υμας ωφελησω εαν μη υμιν λαλησω η εν αποκαλυψει η εν γνωσει η εν προφητεια η εν διδαχη
1 Corinthians 14:6 Now, brethren, if I come unto you speaking with tongues, what shall I profit you, except I shall speak to you either by revelation, or by knowledge, or by prophesying, or by doctrine?
1 Corinthians 14:7 ομως τα αψυχα φωνην διδοντα ειτε αυλος ειτε κιθαρα εαν διαστολην τοις φθογγοις μη δω πως γνωσθησεται το αυλουμενον η το κιθαριζομενον
1 Corinthians 14:7 And even things without life giving sound, whether pipe or harp, except they give a distinction in the sounds, how shall it be known what is piped or harped?
1 Corinthians 14:8 και γαρ εαν αδηλον φωνην σαλπιγξ δω τις παρασκευασεται εις πολεμον
1 Corinthians 14:8 For if the trumpet give an uncertain sound, who shall prepare himself to the battle?
1 Corinthians 14:9 ουτως και υμεις δια της γλωσσης εαν μη ευσημον λογον δωτε πως γνωσθησεται το λαλουμενον εσεσθε γαρ εις αερα λαλουντες
1 Corinthians 14:9 So likewise ye, except ye utter by the tongue words easy to be understood, how shall it be known what is spoken? for ye shall speak into the air.
1 Corinthians 14:10 τοσαυτα ει τυχοι γενη φωνων εστιν εν κοσμω και ουδεν αυτων αφωνον
1 Corinthians 14:10 There are, it may be, so many kinds of voices in the world, and none of them is without signification.
1 Corinthians 14:11 εαν ουν μη ειδω την δυναμιν της φωνης εσομαι τω λαλουντι βαρβαρος και ο λαλων εν εμοι βαρβαρος
1 Corinthians 14:11 Therefore if I know not the meaning of the voice, I shall be unto him that speaketh a barbarian, and he that speaketh shall be a barbarian unto me.
1 Corinthians 14:12 ουτως και υμεις επει ζηλωται εστε πνευματων προς την οικοδομην της εκκλησιας ζητειτε ινα περισσευητε
1 Corinthians 14:12 Even so ye, forasmuch as ye are zealous of spiritual gifts, seek that ye may excel to the edifying of the church.
1 Corinthians 14:13 διοπερ ο λαλων γλωσση προσευχεσθω ινα διερμηνευη
1 Corinthians 14:13 Wherefore let him that speaketh in an unknown tongue pray that he may interpret.
1 Corinthians 14:14 εαν γαρ προσευχωμαι γλωσση το πνευμα μου προσευχεται ο δε νους μου ακαρπος εστιν
1 Corinthians 14:14 For if I pray in an unknown tongue, my spirit prayeth, but my understanding is unfruitful.
1 Corinthians 14:15 τι ουν εστιν προσευξομαι τω πνευματι προσευξομαι δε και τω νοι ψαλω τω πνευματι ψαλω δε και τω νοι
1 Corinthians 14:15 What is it then? I will pray with the spirit, and I will pray with the understanding also: I will sing with the spirit, and I will sing with the understanding also.
1 Corinthians 14:16 επει εαν ευλογησης τω πνευματι ο αναπληρων τον τοπον του ιδιωτου πως ερει το αμην επι τη ση ευχαριστια επειδη τι λεγεις ουκ οιδεν
1 Corinthians 14:16 Else when thou shalt bless with the spirit, how shall he that occupieth the room of the unlearned say Amen at thy giving of thanks, seeing he understandeth not what thou sayest?
1 Corinthians 14:17 συ μεν γαρ καλως ευχαριστεις αλλ ο ετερος ουκ οικοδομειται
1 Corinthians 14:17 For thou verily givest thanks well, but the other is not edified.
1 Corinthians 14:18 ευχαριστω τω θεω μου παντων υμων μαλλον γλωσσαις λαλων
1 Corinthians 14:18 I thank my God, I speak with tongues more than ye all:
1 Corinthians 14:19 αλλ εν εκκλησια θελω πεντε λογους δια του νοος μου λαλησαι ινα και αλλους κατηχησω η μυριους λογους εν γλωσση
1 Corinthians 14:19 Yet in the church I had rather speak five words with my understanding, that by my voice I might teach others also, than ten thousand words in an unknown tongue.
1 Corinthians 14:20 αδελφοι μη παιδια γινεσθε ταις φρεσιν αλλα τη κακια νηπιαζετε ταις δε φρεσιν τελειοι γινεσθε
1 Corinthians 14:20 Brethren, be not children in understanding: howbeit in malice be ye children, but in understanding be men.
1 Corinthians 14:21 εν τω νομω γεγραπται οτι εν ετερογλωσσοις και εν χειλεσιν ετεροις λαλησω τω λαω τουτω και ουδ ουτως εισακουσονται μου λεγει κυριος
1 Corinthians 14:21 In the law it is written, With men of other tongues and other lips will I speak unto this people; and yet for all that will they not hear me, saith the Lord.
1 Corinthians 14:22 ωστε αι γλωσσαι εις σημειον εισιν ου τοις πιστευουσιν αλλα τοις απιστοις η δε προφητεια ου τοις απιστοις αλλα τοις πιστευουσιν
1 Corinthians 14:22 Wherefore tongues are for a sign, not to them that believe, but to them that believe not: but prophesying serveth not for them that believe not, but for them which believe.
1 Corinthians 14:23 εαν ουν συνελθη η εκκλησια ολη επι το αυτο και παντες γλωσσαις λαλωσιν εισελθωσιν δε ιδιωται η απιστοι ουκ ερουσιν οτι μαινεσθε
1 Corinthians 14:23 If therefore the whole church be come together into one place, and all speak with tongues, and there come in those that are unlearned, or unbelievers, will they not say that ye are mad?
1 Corinthians 14:24 εαν δε παντες προφητευωσιν εισελθη δε τις απιστος η ιδιωτης ελεγχεται υπο παντων ανακρινεται υπο παντων
1 Corinthians 14:24 But if all prophesy, and there come in one that believeth not, or one unlearned, he is convinced of all, he is judged of all:
1 Corinthians 14:25 και ουτως τα κρυπτα της καρδιας αυτου φανερα γινεται και ουτως πεσων επι προσωπον προσκυνησει τω θεω απαγγελλων οτι ο θεος οντως εν υμιν εστιν
1 Corinthians 14:25 And thus are the secrets of his heart made manifest; and so falling down on his face he will worship God, and report that God is in you of a truth.
1 Corinthians 14:26 τι ουν εστιν αδελφοι οταν συνερχησθε εκαστος υμων ψαλμον εχει διδαχην εχει γλωσσαν εχει αποκαλυψιν εχει ερμηνειαν εχει παντα προς οικοδομην γενεσθω
1 Corinthians 14:26 How is it then, brethren? when ye come together, every one of you hath a psalm, hath a doctrine, hath a tongue, hath a revelation, hath an interpretation. Let all things be done unto edifying.
1 Corinthians 14:27 ειτε γλωσση τις λαλει κατα δυο η το πλειστον τρεις και ανα μερος και εις διερμηνευετω
1 Corinthians 14:27 If any man speak in an unknown tongue, let it be by two, or at the most by three, and that by course; and let one interpret.
1 Corinthians 14:28 εαν δε μη η διερμηνευτης σιγατω εν εκκλησια εαυτω δε λαλειτω και τω θεω
1 Corinthians 14:28 But if there be no interpreter, let him keep silence in the church; and let him speak to himself, and to God.
1 Corinthians 14:29 προφηται δε δυο η τρεις λαλειτωσαν και οι αλλοι διακρινετωσαν
1 Corinthians 14:29 Let the prophets speak two or three, and let the other judge.
1 Corinthians 14:30 εαν δε αλλω αποκαλυφθη καθημενω ο πρωτος σιγατω
1 Corinthians 14:30 If any thing be revealed to another that sitteth by, let the first hold his peace.
1 Corinthians 14:31 δυνασθε γαρ καθ ενα παντες προφητευειν ινα παντες μανθανωσιν και παντες παρακαλωνται
1 Corinthians 14:31 For ye may all prophesy one by one, that all may learn, and all may be comforted.
1 Corinthians 14:32 και πνευματα προφητων προφηταις υποτασσεται
1 Corinthians 14:32 And the spirits of the prophets are subject to the prophets.
1 Corinthians 14:33 ου γαρ εστιν ακαταστασιας ο θεος αλλ ειρηνης ως εν πασαις ταις εκκλησιαις των αγιων
1 Corinthians 14:33 For God is not the author of confusion, but of peace, as in all churches of the saints.
1 Corinthians 14:34 αι γυναικες υμων εν ταις εκκλησιαις σιγατωσαν ου γαρ επιτετραπται αυταις λαλειν αλλ υποτασσεσθαι καθως και ο νομος λεγει
1 Corinthians 14:34 Let your women keep silence in the churches: for it is not permitted unto them to speak; but they are commanded to be under obedience as also saith the law.
1 Corinthians 14:35 ει δε τι μαθειν θελουσιν εν οικω τους ιδιους ανδρας επερωτατωσαν αισχρον γαρ εστιν γυναιξιν εν εκκλησια λαλειν
1 Corinthians 14:35 And if they will learn any thing, let them ask their husbands at home: for it is a shame for women to speak in the church.
1 Corinthians 14:36 η αφ υμων ο λογος του θεου εξηλθεν η εις υμας μονους κατηντησεν
1 Corinthians 14:36 What? came the word of God out from you? or came it unto you only?
1 Corinthians 14:37 ει τις δοκει προφητης ειναι η πνευματικος επιγινωσκετω α γραφω υμιν οτι του κυριου εισιν εντολαι
1 Corinthians 14:37 If any man think himself to be a prophet, or spiritual, let him acknowledge that the things that I write unto you are the commandments of the Lord.
1 Corinthians 14:38 ει δε τις αγνοει αγνοειτω
1 Corinthians 14:38 But if any man be ignorant, let him be ignorant.
1 Corinthians 14:39 ωστε αδελφοι ζηλουτε το προφητευειν και το λαλειν γλωσσαις μη κωλυετε
1 Corinthians 14:39 Wherefore, brethren, covet to prophesy, and forbid not to speak with tongues.
1 Corinthians 14:40 παντα ευσχημονως και κατα ταξιν γινεσθω
1 Corinthians 14:40 Let all things be done decently and in order.
1 Corinthians 15:1 γνωριζω δε υμιν αδελφοι το ευαγγελιον ο ευηγγελισαμην υμιν ο και παρελαβετε εν ω και εστηκατε
1 Corinthians 15:1 Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel which I preached unto you, which also ye have received, and wherein ye stand;
1 Corinthians 15:2 δι ου και σωζεσθε τινι λογω ευηγγελισαμην υμιν ει κατεχετε εκτος ει μη εικη επιστευσατε
1 Corinthians 15:2 By which also ye are saved, if ye keep in memory what I preached unto you, unless ye have believed in vain.
1 Corinthians 15:3 παρεδωκα γαρ υμιν εν πρωτοις ο και παρελαβον οτι χριστος απεθανεν υπερ των αμαρτιων ημων κατα τας γραφας
1 Corinthians 15:3 For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received, how that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures;
1 Corinthians 15:4 και οτι εταφη και οτι εγηγερται τη τριτη ημερα κατα τας γραφας
1 Corinthians 15:4 And that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures:
1 Corinthians 15:5 και οτι ωφθη κηφα ειτα τοις δωδεκα
1 Corinthians 15:5 And that he was seen of Cephas, then of the twelve:
1 Corinthians 15:6 επειτα ωφθη επανω πεντακοσιοις αδελφοις εφαπαξ εξ ων οι πλειους μενουσιν εως αρτι τινες δε και εκοιμηθησαν
1 Corinthians 15:6 After that, he was seen of above five hundred brethren at once; of whom the greater part remain unto this present, but some are fallen asleep.
1 Corinthians 15:7 επειτα ωφθη ιακωβω ειτα τοις αποστολοις πασιν
1 Corinthians 15:7 After that, he was seen of James; then of all the apostles.
1 Corinthians 15:8 εσχατον δε παντων ωσπερει τω εκτρωματι ωφθη καμοι
1 Corinthians 15:8 And last of all he was seen of me also, as of one born out of due time.
1 Corinthians 15:9 εγω γαρ ειμι ο ελαχιστος των αποστολων ος ουκ ειμι ικανος καλεισθαι αποστολος διοτι εδιωξα την εκκλησιαν του θεου
1 Corinthians 15:9 For I am the least of the apostles, that am not meet to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God.
1 Corinthians 15:10 χαριτι δε θεου ειμι ο ειμι και η χαρις αυτου η εις εμε ου κενη εγενηθη αλλα περισσοτερον αυτων παντων εκοπιασα ουκ εγω δε αλλ η χαρις του θεου η συν εμοι
1 Corinthians 15:10 But by the grace of God I am what I am: and his grace which was bestowed upon me was not in vain; but I laboured more abundantly than they all: yet not I, but the grace of God which was with me.
1 Corinthians 15:11 ειτε ουν εγω ειτε εκεινοι ουτως κηρυσσομεν και ουτως επιστευσατε
1 Corinthians 15:11 Therefore whether it were I or they, so we preach, and so ye believed.
1 Corinthians 15:12 ει δε χριστος κηρυσσεται οτι εκ νεκρων εγηγερται πως λεγουσιν τινες εν υμιν οτι αναστασις νεκρων ουκ εστιν
1 Corinthians 15:12 Now if Christ be preached that he rose from the dead, how say some among you that there is no resurrection of the dead?
1 Corinthians 15:13 ει δε αναστασις νεκρων ουκ εστιν ουδε χριστος εγηγερται
1 Corinthians 15:13 But if there be no resurrection of the dead, then is Christ not risen:
1 Corinthians 15:14 ει δε χριστος ουκ εγηγερται κενον αρα το κηρυγμα ημων κενη δε και η πιστις υμων
1 Corinthians 15:14 And if Christ be not risen, then is our preaching vain, and your faith is also vain.
1 Corinthians 15:15 ευρισκομεθα δε και ψευδομαρτυρες του θεου οτι εμαρτυρησαμεν κατα του θεου οτι ηγειρεν τον χριστον ον ουκ ηγειρεν ειπερ αρα νεκροι ουκ εγειρονται
1 Corinthians 15:15 Yea, and we are found false witnesses of God; because we have testified of God that he raised up Christ: whom he raised not up, if so be that the dead rise not.
1 Corinthians 15:16 ει γαρ νεκροι ουκ εγειρονται ουδε χριστος εγηγερται
1 Corinthians 15:16 For if the dead rise not, then is not Christ raised:
1 Corinthians 15:17 ει δε χριστος ουκ εγηγερται ματαια η πιστις υμων ετι εστε εν ταις αμαρτιαις υμων
1 Corinthians 15:17 And if Christ be not raised, your faith is vain; ye are yet in your sins.
1 Corinthians 15:18 αρα και οι κοιμηθεντες εν χριστω απωλοντο
1 Corinthians 15:18 Then they also which are fallen asleep in Christ are perished.
1 Corinthians 15:19 ει εν τη ζωη ταυτη ηλπικοτες εσμεν εν χριστω μονον ελεεινοτεροι παντων ανθρωπων εσμεν
1 Corinthians 15:19 If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable.
1 Corinthians 15:20 νυνι δε χριστος εγηγερται εκ νεκρων απαρχη των κεκοιμημενων εγενετο
1 Corinthians 15:20 But now is Christ risen from the dead, and become the firstfruits of them that slept.
1 Corinthians 15:21 επειδη γαρ δι ανθρωπου ο θανατος και δι ανθρωπου αναστασις νεκρων
1 Corinthians 15:21 For since by man came death, by man came also the resurrection of the dead.
1 Corinthians 15:22 ωσπερ γαρ εν τω αδαμ παντες αποθνησκουσιν ουτως και εν τω χριστω παντες ζωοποιηθησονται
1 Corinthians 15:22 For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive.
1 Corinthians 15:23 εκαστος δε εν τω ιδιω ταγματι απαρχη χριστος επειτα οι χριστου εν τη παρουσια αυτου
1 Corinthians 15:23 But every man in his own order: Christ the firstfruits; afterward they that are Christ's at his coming.
1 Corinthians 15:24 ειτα το τελος οταν παραδω την βασιλειαν τω θεω και πατρι οταν καταργηση πασαν αρχην και πασαν εξουσιαν και δυναμιν
1 Corinthians 15:24 Then cometh the end, when he shall have delivered up the kingdom to God, even the Father; when he shall have put down all rule and all authority and power.
1 Corinthians 15:25 δει γαρ αυτον βασιλευειν αχρις ου αν θη παντας τους εχθρους υπο τους ποδας αυτου
1 Corinthians 15:25 For he must reign, till he hath put all enemies under his feet.
1 Corinthians 15:26 εσχατος εχθρος καταργειται ο θανατος
1 Corinthians 15:26 The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death.
1 Corinthians 15:27 παντα γαρ υπεταξεν υπο τους ποδας αυτου οταν δε ειπη οτι παντα υποτετακται δηλον οτι εκτος του υποταξαντος αυτω τα παντα
1 Corinthians 15:27 For he hath put all things under his feet. But when he saith all things are put under him, it is manifest that he is excepted, which did put all things under him.
1 Corinthians 15:28 οταν δε υποταγη αυτω τα παντα τοτε και αυτος ο υιος υποταγησεται τω υποταξαντι αυτω τα παντα ινα η ο θεος τα παντα εν πασιν
1 Corinthians 15:28 And when all things shall be subdued unto him, then shall the Son also himself be subject unto him that put all things under him, that God may be all in all.
1 Corinthians 15:29 επει τι ποιησουσιν οι βαπτιζομενοι υπερ των νεκρων ει ολως νεκροι ουκ εγειρονται τι και βαπτιζονται υπερ των νεκρων
1 Corinthians 15:29 Else what shall they do which are baptized for the dead, if the dead rise not at all? why are they then baptized for the dead?
1 Corinthians 15:30 τι και ημεις κινδυνευομεν πασαν ωραν
1 Corinthians 15:30 And why stand we in jeopardy every hour?
1 Corinthians 15:31 καθ ημεραν αποθνησκω νη την ημετεραν καυχησιν ην εχω εν χριστω ιησου τω κυριω ημων
1 Corinthians 15:31 I protest by your rejoicing which I have in Christ Jesus our Lord, I die daily.
1 Corinthians 15:32 ει κατα ανθρωπον εθηριομαχησα εν εφεσω τι μοι το οφελος ει νεκροι ουκ εγειρονται φαγωμεν και πιωμεν αυριον γαρ αποθνησκομεν
1 Corinthians 15:32 If after the manner of men I have fought with beasts at Ephesus, what advantageth it me, if the dead rise not? let us eat and drink; for to morrow we die.
1 Corinthians 15:33 μη πλανασθε φθειρουσιν ηθη χρησθ ομιλιαι κακαι
1 Corinthians 15:33 Be not deceived: evil communications corrupt good manners.
1 Corinthians 15:34 εκνηψατε δικαιως και μη αμαρτανετε αγνωσιαν γαρ θεου τινες εχουσιν προς εντροπην υμιν λεγω
1 Corinthians 15:34 Awake to righteousness, and sin not; for some have not the knowledge of God: I speak this to your shame.
1 Corinthians 15:35 αλλ ερει τις πως εγειρονται οι νεκροι ποιω δε σωματι ερχονται
1 Corinthians 15:35 But some man will say, How are the dead raised up? and with what body do they come?
1 Corinthians 15:36 αφρον συ ο σπειρεις ου ζωοποιειται εαν μη αποθανη
1 Corinthians 15:36 Thou fool, that which thou sowest is not quickened, except it die:
1 Corinthians 15:37 και ο σπειρεις ου το σωμα το γενησομενον σπειρεις αλλα γυμνον κοκκον ει τυχοι σιτου η τινος των λοιπων
1 Corinthians 15:37 And that which thou sowest, thou sowest not that body that shall be, but bare grain, it may chance of wheat, or of some other grain:
1 Corinthians 15:38 ο δε θεος αυτω διδωσιν σωμα καθως ηθελησεν και εκαστω των σπερματων το ιδιον σωμα
1 Corinthians 15:38 But God giveth it a body as it hath pleased him, and to every seed his own body.
1 Corinthians 15:39 ου πασα σαρξ η αυτη σαρξ αλλα αλλη μεν σαρξ ανθρωπων αλλη δε σαρξ κτηνων αλλη δε ιχθυων αλλη δε πτηνων
1 Corinthians 15:39 All flesh is not the same flesh: but there is one kind of flesh of men, another flesh of beasts, another of fishes, and another of birds.
1 Corinthians 15:40 και σωματα επουρανια και σωματα επιγεια αλλ ετερα μεν η των επουρανιων δοξα ετερα δε η των επιγειων
1 Corinthians 15:40 There are also celestial bodies, and bodies terrestrial: but the glory of the celestial is one, and the glory of the terrestrial is another.
1 Corinthians 15:41 αλλη δοξα ηλιου και αλλη δοξα σεληνης και αλλη δοξα αστερων αστηρ γαρ αστερος διαφερει εν δοξη
1 Corinthians 15:41 There is one glory of the sun, and another glory of the moon, and another glory of the stars: for one star differeth from another star in glory.
1 Corinthians 15:42 ουτως και η αναστασις των νεκρων σπειρεται εν φθορα εγειρεται εν αφθαρσια
1 Corinthians 15:42 So also is the resurrection of the dead. It is sown in corruption; it is raised in incorruption:
1 Corinthians 15:43 σπειρεται εν ατιμια εγειρεται εν δοξη σπειρεται εν ασθενεια εγειρεται εν δυναμει
1 Corinthians 15:43 It is sown in dishonour; it is raised in glory: it is sown in weakness; it is raised in power:
1 Corinthians 15:44 σπειρεται σωμα ψυχικον εγειρεται σωμα πνευματικον εστιν σωμα ψυχικον και εστιν σωμα πνευματικον
1 Corinthians 15:44 It is sown a natural body; it is raised a spiritual body.  There is a natural body, and there is a spiritual body.
1 Corinthians 15:45 ουτως και γεγραπται εγενετο ο πρωτος ανθρωπος αδαμ εις ψυχην ζωσαν ο εσχατος αδαμ εις πνευμα ζωοποιουν
1 Corinthians 15:45 And so it is written, The first man Adam was made a living soul; the last Adam was made a quickening spirit.
1 Corinthians 15:46 αλλ ου πρωτον το πνευματικον αλλα το ψυχικον επειτα το πνευματικον
1 Corinthians 15:46 Howbeit that was not first which is spiritual, but that which is natural; and afterward that which is spiritual.
1 Corinthians 15:47 ο πρωτος ανθρωπος εκ γης χοικος ο δευτερος ανθρωπος ο κυριος εξ ουρανου
1 Corinthians 15:47 The first man is of the earth, earthy; the second man is the Lord from heaven.
1 Corinthians 15:48 οιος ο χοικος τοιουτοι και οι χοικοι και οιος ο επουρανιος τοιουτοι και οι επουρανιοι
1 Corinthians 15:48 As is the earthy, such are they also that are earthy: and as is the heavenly, such are they also that are heavenly.
1 Corinthians 15:49 και καθως εφορεσαμεν την εικονα του χοικου φορεσομεν και την εικονα του επουρανιου
1 Corinthians 15:49 And as we have borne the image of the earthy, we shall also bear the image of the heavenly.
1 Corinthians 15:50 τουτο δε φημι αδελφοι οτι σαρξ και αιμα βασιλειαν θεου κληρονομησαι ου δυνανται ουδε η φθορα την αφθαρσιαν κληρονομει
1 Corinthians 15:50 Now this I say, brethren, that flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God; neither doth corruption inherit incorruption.
1 Corinthians 15:51 ιδου μυστηριον υμιν λεγω παντες μεν ου κοιμηθησομεθα παντες δε αλλαγησομεθα
1 Corinthians 15:51 Behold, I shew you a mystery; We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed,
1 Corinthians 15:52 εν ατομω εν ριπη οφθαλμου εν τη εσχατη σαλπιγγι σαλπισει γαρ και οι νεκροι εγερθησονται αφθαρτοι και ημεις αλλαγησομεθα
1 Corinthians 15:52 In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump: for the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed.
1 Corinthians 15:53 δει γαρ το φθαρτον τουτο ενδυσασθαι αφθαρσιαν και το θνητον τουτο ενδυσασθαι αθανασιαν
1 Corinthians 15:53 For this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality.
1 Corinthians 15:54 οταν δε το φθαρτον τουτο ενδυσηται αφθαρσιαν και το θνητον τουτο ενδυσηται αθανασιαν τοτε γενησεται ο λογος ο γεγραμμενος κατεποθη ο θανατος εις νικος
1 Corinthians 15:54 So when this corruptible shall have put on incorruption, and this mortal shall have put on immortality, then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory.
1 Corinthians 15:55 που σου θανατε το κεντρον που σου αδη το νικος
1 Corinthians 15:55 O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory?
1 Corinthians 15:56 το δε κεντρον του θανατου η αμαρτια η δε δυναμις της αμαρτιας ο νομος
1 Corinthians 15:56 The sting of death is sin; and the strength of sin is the law.
1 Corinthians 15:57 τω δε θεω χαρις τω διδοντι ημιν το νικος δια του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου
1 Corinthians 15:57 But thanks be to God, which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ.
1 Corinthians 15:58 ωστε αδελφοι μου αγαπητοι εδραιοι γινεσθε αμετακινητοι περισσευοντες εν τω εργω του κυριου παντοτε ειδοτες οτι ο κοπος υμων ουκ εστιν κενος εν κυριω
1 Corinthians 15:58 Therefore, my beloved brethren, be ye stedfast, unmoveable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, forasmuch as ye know that your labour is not in vain in the Lord.
1 Corinthians 16:1 περι δε της λογιας της εις τους αγιους ωσπερ διεταξα ταις εκκλησιαις της γαλατιας ουτως και υμεις ποιησατε
1 Corinthians 16:1 Now concerning the collection for the saints, as I have given order to the churches of Galatia, even so do ye.
1 Corinthians 16:2 κατα μιαν σαββατων εκαστος υμων παρ εαυτω τιθετω θησαυριζων ο τι αν ευοδωται ινα μη οταν ελθω τοτε λογιαι γινωνται
1 Corinthians 16:2 Upon the first day of the week let every one of you lay by him in store, as God hath prospered him, that there be no gatherings when I come.
1 Corinthians 16:3 οταν δε παραγενωμαι ους εαν δοκιμασητε δι επιστολων τουτους πεμψω απενεγκειν την χαριν υμων εις ιερουσαλημ
1 Corinthians 16:3 And when I come, whomsoever ye shall approve by your letters, them will I send to bring your liberality unto Jerusalem.
1 Corinthians 16:4 εαν δε η αξιον του καμε πορευεσθαι συν εμοι πορευσονται
1 Corinthians 16:4 And if it be meet that I go also, they shall go with me.
1 Corinthians 16:5 ελευσομαι δε προς υμας οταν μακεδονιαν διελθω μακεδονιαν γαρ διερχομαι
1 Corinthians 16:5 Now I will come unto you, when I shall pass through Macedonia: for I do pass through Macedonia.
1 Corinthians 16:6 προς υμας δε τυχον παραμενω η και παραχειμασω ινα υμεις με προπεμψητε ου εαν πορευωμαι
1 Corinthians 16:6 And it may be that I will abide, yea, and winter with you, that ye may bring me on my journey whithersoever I go.
1 Corinthians 16:7 ου θελω γαρ υμας αρτι εν παροδω ιδειν ελπιζω δε χρονον τινα επιμειναι προς υμας εαν ο κυριος επιτρεπη
1 Corinthians 16:7 For I will not see you now by the way; but I trust to tarry a while with you, if the Lord permit.
1 Corinthians 16:8 επιμενω δε εν εφεσω εως της πεντηκοστης
1 Corinthians 16:8 But I will tarry at Ephesus until Pentecost.
1 Corinthians 16:9 θυρα γαρ μοι ανεωγεν μεγαλη και ενεργης και αντικειμενοι πολλοι
1 Corinthians 16:9 For a great door and effectual is opened unto me, and there are many adversaries.
1 Corinthians 16:10 εαν δε ελθη τιμοθεος βλεπετε ινα αφοβως γενηται προς υμας το γαρ εργον κυριου εργαζεται ως και εγω
1 Corinthians 16:10 Now if Timotheus come, see that he may be with you without fear: for he worketh the work of the Lord, as I also do.
1 Corinthians 16:11 μη τις ουν αυτον εξουθενηση προπεμψατε δε αυτον εν ειρηνη ινα ελθη προς με εκδεχομαι γαρ αυτον μετα των αδελφων
1 Corinthians 16:11 Let no man therefore despise him: but conduct him forth in peace, that he may come unto me: for I look for him with the brethren.
1 Corinthians 16:12 περι δε απολλω του αδελφου πολλα παρεκαλεσα αυτον ινα ελθη προς υμας μετα των αδελφων και παντως ουκ ην θελημα ινα νυν ελθη ελευσεται δε οταν ευκαιρηση
1 Corinthians 16:12 As touching our brother Apollos, I greatly desired him to come unto you with the brethren: but his will was not at all to come at this time; but he will come when he shall have convenient time.
1 Corinthians 16:13 γρηγορειτε στηκετε εν τη πιστει ανδριζεσθε κραταιουσθε
1 Corinthians 16:13 Watch ye, stand fast in the faith, quit you like men, be strong.
1 Corinthians 16:14 παντα υμων εν αγαπη γινεσθω
1 Corinthians 16:14 Let all your things be done with charity.
1 Corinthians 16:15 παρακαλω δε υμας αδελφοι οιδατε την οικιαν στεφανα οτι εστιν απαρχη της αχαιας και εις διακονιαν τοις αγιοις εταξαν εαυτους
1 Corinthians 16:15 I beseech you, brethren, (ye know the house of Stephanas, that it is the firstfruits of Achaia, and that they have addicted themselves to the ministry of the saints,)
1 Corinthians 16:16 ινα και υμεις υποτασσησθε τοις τοιουτοις και παντι τω συνεργουντι και κοπιωντι
1 Corinthians 16:16 That ye submit yourselves unto such, and to every one that helpeth with us, and laboureth.
1 Corinthians 16:17 χαιρω δε επι τη παρουσια στεφανα και φουρτουνατου και αχαικου οτι το υμων υστερημα ουτοι ανεπληρωσαν
1 Corinthians 16:17 I am glad of the coming of Stephanas and Fortunatus and Achaicus: for that which was lacking on your part they have supplied.
1 Corinthians 16:18 ανεπαυσαν γαρ το εμον πνευμα και το υμων επιγινωσκετε ουν τους τοιουτους
1 Corinthians 16:18 For they have refreshed my spirit and your's: therefore acknowledge ye them that are such.
1 Corinthians 16:19 ασπαζονται υμας αι εκκλησιαι της ασιας ασπαζονται υμας εν κυριω πολλα ακυλας και πρισκιλλα συν τη κατ οικον αυτων εκκλησια
1 Corinthians 16:19 The churches of Asia salute you. Aquila and Priscilla salute you much in the Lord, with the church that is in their house.
1 Corinthians 16:20 ασπαζονται υμας οι αδελφοι παντες ασπασασθε αλληλους εν φιληματι αγιω
1 Corinthians 16:20 All the brethren greet you. Greet ye one another with an holy kiss.
1 Corinthians 16:21 ο ασπασμος τη εμη χειρι παυλου
1 Corinthians 16:21 The salutation of me Paul with mine own hand.
1 Corinthians 16:22 ει τις ου φιλει τον κυριον ιησουν χριστον ητω αναθεμα μαραν αθα
1 Corinthians 16:22 If any man love not the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be Anathema Maranatha.
1 Corinthians 16:23 η χαρις του κυριου ιησου χριστου μεθ υμων
1 Corinthians 16:23 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.
1 Corinthians 16:24 η αγαπη μου μετα παντων υμων εν χριστω ιησου αμην [προς κορινθιους πρωτη εγραφη απο φιλιππων δια στεφανα και φουρτουνατου και αχαικου και τιμοθεου]
1 Corinthians 16:24 My love be with you all in Christ Jesus. Amen.
2 Corinthians 1:1 παυλος αποστολος ιησου χριστου δια θεληματος θεου και τιμοθεος ο αδελφος τη εκκλησια του θεου τη ουση εν κορινθω συν τοις αγιοις πασιν τοις ουσιν εν ολη τη αχαια
2 Corinthians 1:1 Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, and Timothy our brother, unto the church of God which is at Corinth, with all the saints which are in all Achaia:
2 Corinthians 1:2 χαρις υμιν και ειρηνη απο θεου πατρος ημων και κυριου ιησου χριστου
2 Corinthians 1:2 Grace be to you and peace from God our Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ.
2 Corinthians 1:3 ευλογητος ο θεος και πατηρ του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου ο πατηρ των οικτιρμων και θεος πασης παρακλησεως
2 Corinthians 1:3 Blessed be God, even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies, and the God of all comfort;
2 Corinthians 1:4 ο παρακαλων ημας επι παση τη θλιψει ημων εις το δυνασθαι ημας παρακαλειν τους εν παση θλιψει δια της παρακλησεως ης παρακαλουμεθα αυτοι υπο του θεου
2 Corinthians 1:4 Who comforteth us in all our tribulation, that we may be able to comfort them which are in any trouble, by the comfort wherewith we ourselves are comforted of God.
2 Corinthians 1:5 οτι καθως περισσευει τα παθηματα του χριστου εις ημας ουτως δια χριστου περισσευει και η παρακλησις ημων
2 Corinthians 1:5 For as the sufferings of Christ abound in us, so our consolation also aboundeth by Christ.
2 Corinthians 1:6 ειτε δε θλιβομεθα υπερ της υμων παρακλησεως και σωτηριας της ενεργουμενης εν υπομονη των αυτων παθηματων ων και ημεις πασχομεν ειτε παρακαλουμεθα υπερ της υμων παρακλησεως και σωτηριας και η ελπις ημων βεβαια υπερ υμων
2 Corinthians 1:6 And whether we be afflicted, it is for your consolation and salvation, which is effectual in the enduring of the same sufferings which we also suffer: or whether we be comforted, it is for your consolation and salvation.
2 Corinthians 1:7 ειδοτες οτι ωσπερ κοινωνοι εστε των παθηματων ουτως και της παρακλησεως
2 Corinthians 1:7 And our hope of you is stedfast, knowing, that as ye are partakers of the sufferings, so shall ye be also of the consolation.
2 Corinthians 1:8 ου γαρ θελομεν υμας αγνοειν αδελφοι υπερ της θλιψεως ημων της γενομενης ημιν εν τη ασια οτι καθ υπερβολην εβαρηθημεν υπερ δυναμιν ωστε εξαπορηθηναι ημας και του ζην
2 Corinthians 1:8 For we would not, brethren, have you ignorant of our trouble which came to us in Asia, that we were pressed out of measure, above strength, insomuch that we despaired even of life:
2 Corinthians 1:9 αλλα αυτοι εν εαυτοις το αποκριμα του θανατου εσχηκαμεν ινα μη πεποιθοτες ωμεν εφ εαυτοις αλλ επι τω θεω τω εγειροντι τους νεκρους
2 Corinthians 1:9 But we had the sentence of death in ourselves, that we should not trust in ourselves, but in God which raiseth the dead:
2 Corinthians 1:10 ος εκ τηλικουτου θανατου ερρυσατο ημας και ρυεται εις ον ηλπικαμεν οτι και ετι ρυσεται
2 Corinthians 1:10 Who delivered us from so great a death, and doth deliver: in whom we trust that he will yet deliver us;
2 Corinthians 1:11 συνυπουργουντων και υμων υπερ ημων τη δεησει ινα εκ πολλων προσωπων το εις ημας χαρισμα δια πολλων ευχαριστηθη υπερ ημων
2 Corinthians 1:11 Ye also helping together by prayer for us, that for the gift bestowed upon us by the means of many persons thanks may be given by many on our behalf.
2 Corinthians 1:12 η γαρ καυχησις ημων αυτη εστιν το μαρτυριον της συνειδησεως ημων οτι εν απλοτητι και ειλικρινεια θεου ουκ εν σοφια σαρκικη αλλ εν χαριτι θεου ανεστραφημεν εν τω κοσμω περισσοτερως δε προς υμας
2 Corinthians 1:12 For our rejoicing is this, the testimony of our conscience, that in simplicity and godly sincerity, not with fleshly wisdom, but by the grace of God, we have had our conversation in the world, and more abundantly to you-ward.
2 Corinthians 1:13 ου γαρ αλλα γραφομεν υμιν αλλ η α αναγινωσκετε η και επιγινωσκετε ελπιζω δε οτι και εως τελους επιγνωσεσθε
2 Corinthians 1:13 For we write none other things unto you, than what ye read or acknowledge; and I trust ye shall acknowledge even to the end;
2 Corinthians 1:14 καθως και επεγνωτε ημας απο μερους οτι καυχημα υμων εσμεν καθαπερ και υμεις ημων εν τη ημερα του κυριου ιησου
2 Corinthians 1:14 As also ye have acknowledged us in part, that we are your rejoicing, even as ye also are our's in the day of the Lord Jesus.
2 Corinthians 1:15 και ταυτη τη πεποιθησει εβουλομην προς υμας ελθειν προτερον ινα δευτεραν χαριν εχητε
2 Corinthians 1:15 And in this confidence I was minded to come unto you before, that ye might have a second benefit;
2 Corinthians 1:16 και δι υμων διελθειν εις μακεδονιαν και παλιν απο μακεδονιας ελθειν προς υμας και υφ υμων προπεμφθηναι εις την ιουδαιαν
2 Corinthians 1:16 And to pass by you into Macedonia, and to come again out of Macedonia unto you, and of you to be brought on my way toward Judaea.
2 Corinthians 1:17 τουτο ουν βουλευομενος μη τι αρα τη ελαφρια εχρησαμην η α βουλευομαι κατα σαρκα βουλευομαι ινα η παρ εμοι το ναι ναι και το ου ου
2 Corinthians 1:17 When I therefore was thus minded, did I use lightness? or the things that I purpose, do I purpose according to the flesh, that with me there should be yea yea, and nay nay?
2 Corinthians 1:18 πιστος δε ο θεος οτι ο λογος ημων ο προς υμας ουκ εγενετο ναι και ου
2 Corinthians 1:18 But as God is true, our word toward you was not yea and nay.
2 Corinthians 1:19 ο γαρ του θεου υιος ιησους χριστος ο εν υμιν δι ημων κηρυχθεις δι εμου και σιλουανου και τιμοθεου ουκ εγενετο ναι και ου αλλα ναι εν αυτω γεγονεν
2 Corinthians 1:19 For the Son of God, Jesus Christ, who was preached among you by us, even by me and Silvanus and Timotheus, was not yea and nay, but in him was yea.
2 Corinthians 1:20 οσαι γαρ επαγγελιαι θεου εν αυτω το ναι και εν αυτω το αμην τω θεω προς δοξαν δι ημων
2 Corinthians 1:20 For all the promises of God in him are yea, and in him Amen, unto the glory of God by us.
2 Corinthians 1:21 ο δε βεβαιων ημας συν υμιν εις χριστον και χρισας ημας θεος
2 Corinthians 1:21 Now he which stablisheth us with you in Christ, and hath anointed us, is God;
2 Corinthians 1:22 ο και σφραγισαμενος ημας και δους τον αρραβωνα του πνευματος εν ταις καρδιαις ημων
2 Corinthians 1:22 Who hath also sealed us, and given the earnest of the Spirit in our hearts.
2 Corinthians 1:23 εγω δε μαρτυρα τον θεον επικαλουμαι επι την εμην ψυχην οτι φειδομενος υμων ουκετι ηλθον εις κορινθον
2 Corinthians 1:23 Moreover I call God for a record upon my soul, that to spare you I came not as yet unto Corinth.
2 Corinthians 1:24 ουχ οτι κυριευομεν υμων της πιστεως αλλα συνεργοι εσμεν της χαρας υμων τη γαρ πιστει εστηκατε
2 Corinthians 1:24 Not for that we have dominion over your faith, but are helpers of your joy: for by faith ye stand.
2 Corinthians 2:1 εκρινα δε εμαυτω τουτο το μη παλιν ελθειν εν λυπη προς υμας
2 Corinthians 2:1 But I determined this with myself, that I would not come again to you in heaviness.
2 Corinthians 2:2 ει γαρ εγω λυπω υμας και τις εστιν ο ευφραινων με ει μη ο λυπουμενος εξ εμου
2 Corinthians 2:2 For if I make you sorry, who is he then that maketh me glad, but the same which is made sorry by me?
2 Corinthians 2:3 και εγραψα υμιν τουτο αυτο ινα μη ελθων λυπην εχω αφ ων εδει με χαιρειν πεποιθως επι παντας υμας οτι η εμη χαρα παντων υμων εστιν
2 Corinthians 2:3 And I wrote this same unto you, lest, when I came, I should have sorrow from them of whom I ought to rejoice; having confidence in you all, that my joy is the joy of you all.
2 Corinthians 2:4 εκ γαρ πολλης θλιψεως και συνοχης καρδιας εγραψα υμιν δια πολλων δακρυων ουχ ινα λυπηθητε αλλα την αγαπην ινα γνωτε ην εχω περισσοτερως εις υμας
2 Corinthians 2:4 For out of much affliction and anguish of heart I wrote unto you with many tears; not that ye should be grieved, but that ye might know the love which I have more abundantly unto you.
2 Corinthians 2:5 ει δε τις λελυπηκεν ουκ εμε λελυπηκεν αλλ απο μερους ινα μη επιβαρω παντας υμας
2 Corinthians 2:5 But if any have caused grief, he hath not grieved me, but in part: that I may not overcharge you all.
2 Corinthians 2:6 ικανον τω τοιουτω η επιτιμια αυτη η υπο των πλειονων
2 Corinthians 2:6 Sufficient to such a man is this punishment, which was inflicted of many.
2 Corinthians 2:7 ωστε τουναντιον μαλλον υμας χαρισασθαι και παρακαλεσαι μηπως τη περισσοτερα λυπη καταποθη ο τοιουτος
2 Corinthians 2:7 So that contrariwise ye ought rather to forgive him, and comfort him, lest perhaps such a one should be swallowed up with overmuch sorrow.
2 Corinthians 2:8 διο παρακαλω υμας κυρωσαι εις αυτον αγαπην
2 Corinthians 2:8 Wherefore I beseech you that ye would confirm your love toward him.
2 Corinthians 2:9 εις τουτο γαρ και εγραψα ινα γνω την δοκιμην υμων ει εις παντα υπηκοοι εστε
2 Corinthians 2:9 For to this end also did I write, that I might know the proof of you, whether ye be obedient in all things.
2 Corinthians 2:10 ω δε τι χαριζεσθε και εγω και γαρ εγω ει τι κεχαρισμαι ω κεχαρισμαι δι υμας εν προσωπω χριστου
2 Corinthians 2:10 To whom ye forgive any thing, I forgive also: for if I forgave any thing, to whom I forgave it, for your sakes forgave I it in the person of Christ;
2 Corinthians 2:11 ινα μη πλεονεκτηθωμεν υπο του σατανα ου γαρ αυτου τα νοηματα αγνοουμεν
2 Corinthians 2:11 Lest Satan should get an advantage of us: for we are not ignorant of his devices.
2 Corinthians 2:12 ελθων δε εις την τρωαδα εις το ευαγγελιον του χριστου και θυρας μοι ανεωγμενης εν κυριω
2 Corinthians 2:12 Furthermore, when I came to Troas to preach Christ's gospel, and a door was opened unto me of the Lord,
2 Corinthians 2:13 ουκ εσχηκα ανεσιν τω πνευματι μου τω μη ευρειν με τιτον τον αδελφον μου αλλα αποταξαμενος αυτοις εξηλθον εις μακεδονιαν
2 Corinthians 2:13 I had no rest in my spirit, because I found not Titus my brother: but taking my leave of them, I went from thence into Macedonia.
2 Corinthians 2:14 τω δε θεω χαρις τω παντοτε θριαμβευοντι ημας εν τω χριστω και την οσμην της γνωσεως αυτου φανερουντι δι ημων εν παντι τοπω
2 Corinthians 2:14 Now thanks be unto God, which always causeth us to triumph in Christ, and maketh manifest the savour of his knowledge by us in every place.
2 Corinthians 2:15 οτι χριστου ευωδια εσμεν τω θεω εν τοις σωζομενοις και εν τοις απολλυμενοις
2 Corinthians 2:15 For we are unto God a sweet savour of Christ, in them that are saved, and in them that perish:
2 Corinthians 2:16 οις μεν οσμη θανατου εις θανατον οις δε οσμη ζωης εις ζωην και προς ταυτα τις ικανος
2 Corinthians 2:16 To the one we are the savour of death unto death; and to the other the savour of life unto life. And who is sufficient for these things?
2 Corinthians 2:17 ου γαρ εσμεν ως οι πολλοι καπηλευοντες τον λογον του θεου αλλ ως εξ ειλικρινειας αλλ ως εκ θεου κατενωπιον του θεου εν χριστω λαλουμεν
2 Corinthians 2:17 For we are not as many, which corrupt the word of God: but as of sincerity, but as of God, in the sight of God speak we in Christ.
2 Corinthians 3:1 αρχομεθα παλιν εαυτους συνιστανειν ει μη χρηζομεν ως τινες συστατικων επιστολων προς υμας η εξ υμων συστατικων
2 Corinthians 3:1 Do we begin again to commend ourselves? or need we, as some others, epistles of commendation to you, or letters of commendation from you?
2 Corinthians 3:2 η επιστολη ημων υμεις εστε εγγεγραμμενη εν ταις καρδιαις ημων γινωσκομενη και αναγινωσκομενη υπο παντων ανθρωπων
2 Corinthians 3:2 Ye are our epistle written in our hearts, known and read of all men:
2 Corinthians 3:3 φανερουμενοι οτι εστε επιστολη χριστου διακονηθεισα υφ ημων εγγεγραμμενη ου μελανι αλλα πνευματι θεου ζωντος ουκ εν πλαξιν λιθιναις αλλ εν πλαξιν καρδιας σαρκιναις
2 Corinthians 3:3 Forasmuch as ye are manifestly declared to be the epistle of Christ ministered by us, written not with ink, but with the Spirit of the living God; not in tables of stone, but in fleshy tables of the heart.
2 Corinthians 3:4 πεποιθησιν δε τοιαυτην εχομεν δια του χριστου προς τον θεον
2 Corinthians 3:4 And such trust have we through Christ to God-ward:
2 Corinthians 3:5 ουχ οτι ικανοι εσμεν αφ εαυτων λογισασθαι τι ως εξ εαυτων αλλ η ικανοτης ημων εκ του θεου
2 Corinthians 3:5 Not that we are sufficient of ourselves to think any thing as of ourselves; but our sufficiency is of God;
2 Corinthians 3:6 ος και ικανωσεν ημας διακονους καινης διαθηκης ου γραμματος αλλα πνευματος το γαρ γραμμα αποκτεινει το δε πνευμα ζωοποιει
2 Corinthians 3:6 Who also hath made us able ministers of the new testament; not of the letter, but of the spirit: for the letter killeth, but the spirit giveth life.
2 Corinthians 3:7 ει δε η διακονια του θανατου εν γραμμασιν εντετυπωμενη εν λιθοις εγενηθη εν δοξη ωστε μη δυνασθαι ατενισαι τους υιους ισραηλ εις το προσωπον μωσεως δια την δοξαν του προσωπου αυτου την καταργουμενην
2 Corinthians 3:7 But if the ministration of death, written and engraven in stones, was glorious, so that the children of Israel could not stedfastly behold the face of Moses for the glory of his countenance; which glory was to be done away:
2 Corinthians 3:8 πως ουχι μαλλον η διακονια του πνευματος εσται εν δοξη
2 Corinthians 3:8 How shall not the ministration of the spirit be rather glorious?
2 Corinthians 3:9 ει γαρ η διακονια της κατακρισεως δοξα πολλω μαλλον περισσευει η διακονια της δικαιοσυνης εν δοξη
2 Corinthians 3:9 For if the ministration of condemnation be glory, much more doth the ministration of righteousness exceed in glory.
2 Corinthians 3:10 και γαρ ουδε δεδοξασται το δεδοξασμενον εν τουτω τω μερει ενεκεν της υπερβαλλουσης δοξης
2 Corinthians 3:10 For even that which was made glorious had no glory in this respect, by reason of the glory that excelleth.
2 Corinthians 3:11 ει γαρ το καταργουμενον δια δοξης πολλω μαλλον το μενον εν δοξη
2 Corinthians 3:11 For if that which is done away was glorious, much more that which remaineth is glorious.
2 Corinthians 3:12 εχοντες ουν τοιαυτην ελπιδα πολλη παρρησια χρωμεθα
2 Corinthians 3:12 Seeing then that we have such hope, we use great plainness of speech:
2 Corinthians 3:13 και ου καθαπερ μωσης ετιθει καλυμμα επι το προσωπον εαυτου προς το μη ατενισαι τους υιους ισραηλ εις το τελος του καταργουμενου
2 Corinthians 3:13 And not as Moses, which put a vail over his face, that the children of Israel could not stedfastly look to the end of that which is abolished:
2 Corinthians 3:14 αλλ επωρωθη τα νοηματα αυτων αχρι γαρ της σημερον το αυτο καλυμμα επι τη αναγνωσει της παλαιας διαθηκης μενει μη ανακαλυπτομενον ο τι εν χριστω καταργειται
2 Corinthians 3:14 But their minds were blinded: for until this day remaineth the same vail untaken away in the reading of the old testament; which vail is done away in Christ.
2 Corinthians 3:15 αλλ εως σημερον ηνικα αναγινωσκεται μωσης καλυμμα επι την καρδιαν αυτων κειται
2 Corinthians 3:15 But even unto this day, when Moses is read, the vail is upon their heart.
2 Corinthians 3:16 ηνικα δ αν επιστρεψη προς κυριον περιαιρειται το καλυμμα
2 Corinthians 3:16 Nevertheless when it shall turn to the Lord, the vail shall be taken away.
2 Corinthians 3:17 ο δε κυριος το πνευμα εστιν ου δε το πνευμα κυριου εκει ελευθερια
2 Corinthians 3:17 Now the Lord is that Spirit: and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty.
2 Corinthians 3:18 ημεις δε παντες ανακεκαλυμμενω προσωπω την δοξαν κυριου κατοπτριζομενοι την αυτην εικονα μεταμορφουμεθα απο δοξης εις δοξαν καθαπερ απο κυριου πνευματος
2 Corinthians 3:18 But we all, with open face beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord, are changed into the same image from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of the Lord.
2 Corinthians 4:1 δια τουτο εχοντες την διακονιαν ταυτην καθως ηλεηθημεν ουκ εκκακουμεν
2 Corinthians 4:1 Therefore seeing we have this ministry, as we have received mercy, we faint not;
2 Corinthians 4:2 αλλ απειπαμεθα τα κρυπτα της αισχυνης μη περιπατουντες εν πανουργια μηδε δολουντες τον λογον του θεου αλλα τη φανερωσει της αληθειας συνιστωντες εαυτους προς πασαν συνειδησιν ανθρωπων ενωπιον του θεου
2 Corinthians 4:2 But have renounced the hidden things of dishonesty, not walking in craftiness, nor handling the word of God deceitfully; but by manifestation of the truth commending ourselves to every man's conscience in the sight of God.
2 Corinthians 4:3 ει δε και εστιν κεκαλυμμενον το ευαγγελιον ημων εν τοις απολλυμενοις εστιν κεκαλυμμενον
2 Corinthians 4:3 But if our gospel be hid, it is hid to them that are lost:
2 Corinthians 4:4 εν οις ο θεος του αιωνος τουτου ετυφλωσεν τα νοηματα των απιστων εις το μη αυγασαι αυτοις τον φωτισμον του ευαγγελιου της δοξης του χριστου ος εστιν εικων του θεου
2 Corinthians 4:4 In whom the god of this world hath blinded the minds of them which believe not, lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, who is the image of God, should shine unto them.
2 Corinthians 4:5 ου γαρ εαυτους κηρυσσομεν αλλα χριστον ιησουν κυριον εαυτους δε δουλους υμων δια ιησουν
2 Corinthians 4:5 For we preach not ourselves, but Christ Jesus the Lord; and ourselves your servants for Jesus' sake.
2 Corinthians 4:6 οτι ο θεος ο ειπων εκ σκοτους φως λαμψαι ος ελαμψεν εν ταις καρδιαις ημων προς φωτισμον της γνωσεως της δοξης του θεου εν προσωπω ιησου χριστου
2 Corinthians 4:6 For God, who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, hath shined in our hearts, to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ.
2 Corinthians 4:7 εχομεν δε τον θησαυρον τουτον εν οστρακινοις σκευεσιν ινα η υπερβολη της δυναμεως η του θεου και μη εξ ημων
2 Corinthians 4:7 But we have this treasure in earthen vessels, that the excellency of the power may be of God, and not of us.
2 Corinthians 4:8 εν παντι θλιβομενοι αλλ ου στενοχωρουμενοι απορουμενοι αλλ ουκ εξαπορουμενοι
2 Corinthians 4:8 We are troubled on every side, yet not distressed; we are perplexed, but not in despair;
2 Corinthians 4:9 διωκομενοι αλλ ουκ εγκαταλειπομενοι καταβαλλομενοι αλλ ουκ απολλυμενοι
2 Corinthians 4:9 Persecuted, but not forsaken; cast down, but not destroyed;
2 Corinthians 4:10 παντοτε την νεκρωσιν του κυριου ιησου εν τω σωματι περιφεροντες ινα και η ζωη του ιησου εν τω σωματι ημων φανερωθη
2 Corinthians 4:10 Always bearing about in the body the dying of the Lord Jesus, that the life also of Jesus might be made manifest in our body.
2 Corinthians 4:11 αει γαρ ημεις οι ζωντες εις θανατον παραδιδομεθα δια ιησουν ινα και η ζωη του ιησου φανερωθη εν τη θνητη σαρκι ημων
2 Corinthians 4:11 For we which live are alway delivered unto death for Jesus' sake, that the life also of Jesus might be made manifest in our mortal flesh.
2 Corinthians 4:12 ωστε ο μεν θανατος εν ημιν ενεργειται η δε ζωη εν υμιν
2 Corinthians 4:12 So then death worketh in us, but life in you.
2 Corinthians 4:13 εχοντες δε το αυτο πνευμα της πιστεως κατα το γεγραμμενον επιστευσα διο ελαλησα και ημεις πιστευομεν διο και λαλουμεν
2 Corinthians 4:13 We having the same spirit of faith, according as it is written, I believed, and therefore have I spoken; we also believe, and therefore speak;
2 Corinthians 4:14 ειδοτες οτι ο εγειρας τον κυριον ιησουν και ημας δια ιησου εγερει και παραστησει συν υμιν
2 Corinthians 4:14 Knowing that he which raised up the Lord Jesus shall raise up us also by Jesus, and shall present us with you.
2 Corinthians 4:15 τα γαρ παντα δι υμας ινα η χαρις πλεονασασα δια των πλειονων την ευχαριστιαν περισσευση εις την δοξαν του θεου
2 Corinthians 4:15 For all things are for your sakes, that the abundant grace might through the thanksgiving of many redound to the glory of God.
2 Corinthians 4:16 διο ουκ εκκακουμεν αλλ ει και ο εξω ημων ανθρωπος διαφθειρεται αλλ ο εσωθεν ανακαινουται ημερα και ημερα
2 Corinthians 4:16 For which cause we faint not; but though our outward man perish, yet the inward man is renewed day by day.
2 Corinthians 4:17 το γαρ παραυτικα ελαφρον της θλιψεως ημων καθ υπερβολην εις υπερβολην αιωνιον βαρος δοξης κατεργαζεται ημιν
2 Corinthians 4:17 For our light affliction, which is but for a moment, worketh for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory;
2 Corinthians 4:18 μη σκοπουντων ημων τα βλεπομενα αλλα τα μη βλεπομενα τα γαρ βλεπομενα προσκαιρα τα δε μη βλεπομενα αιωνια
2 Corinthians 4:18 While we look not at the things which are seen, but at the things which are not seen: for the things which are seen are temporal; but the things which are not seen are eternal.
2 Corinthians 5:1 οιδαμεν γαρ οτι εαν η επιγειος ημων οικια του σκηνους καταλυθη οικοδομην εκ θεου εχομεν οικιαν αχειροποιητον αιωνιον εν τοις ουρανοις
2 Corinthians 5:1 For we know that if our earthly house of this tabernacle were dissolved, we have a building of God, an house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens.
2 Corinthians 5:2 και γαρ εν τουτω στεναζομεν το οικητηριον ημων το εξ ουρανου επενδυσασθαι επιποθουντες
2 Corinthians 5:2 For in this we groan, earnestly desiring to be clothed upon with our house which is from heaven:
2 Corinthians 5:3 ειγε και ενδυσαμενοι ου γυμνοι ευρεθησομεθα
2 Corinthians 5:3 If so be that being clothed we shall not be found naked.
2 Corinthians 5:4 και γαρ οι οντες εν τω σκηνει στεναζομεν βαρουμενοι επειδη ου θελομεν εκδυσασθαι αλλ επενδυσασθαι ινα καταποθη το θνητον υπο της ζωης
2 Corinthians 5:4 For we that are in this tabernacle do groan, being burdened: not for that we would be unclothed, but clothed upon, that mortality might be swallowed up of life.
2 Corinthians 5:5 ο δε κατεργασαμενος ημας εις αυτο τουτο θεος ο και δους ημιν τον αρραβωνα του πνευματος
2 Corinthians 5:5 Now he that hath wrought us for the selfsame thing is God, who also hath given unto us the earnest of the Spirit.
2 Corinthians 5:6 θαρρουντες ουν παντοτε και ειδοτες οτι ενδημουντες εν τω σωματι εκδημουμεν απο του κυριου
2 Corinthians 5:6 Therefore we are always confident, knowing that, whilst we are at home in the body, we are absent from the Lord:
2 Corinthians 5:7 δια πιστεως γαρ περιπατουμεν ου δια ειδους
2 Corinthians 5:7 (For we walk by faith, not by sight:)
2 Corinthians 5:8 θαρρουμεν δε και ευδοκουμεν μαλλον εκδημησαι εκ του σωματος και ενδημησαι προς τον κυριον
2 Corinthians 5:8 We are confident, I say, and willing rather to be absent from the body, and to be present with the Lord.
2 Corinthians 5:9 διο και φιλοτιμουμεθα ειτε ενδημουντες ειτε εκδημουντες ευαρεστοι αυτω ειναι
2 Corinthians 5:9 Wherefore we labour, that, whether present or absent, we may be accepted of him.
2 Corinthians 5:10 τους γαρ παντας ημας φανερωθηναι δει εμπροσθεν του βηματος του χριστου ινα κομισηται εκαστος τα δια του σωματος προς α επραξεν ειτε αγαθον ειτε κακον
2 Corinthians 5:10 For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ; that every one may receive the things done in his body, according to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad.
2 Corinthians 5:11 ειδοτες ουν τον φοβον του κυριου ανθρωπους πειθομεν θεω δε πεφανερωμεθα ελπιζω δε και εν ταις συνειδησεσιν υμων πεφανερωσθαι
2 Corinthians 5:11 Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, we persuade men; but we are made manifest unto God; and I trust also are made manifest in your consciences.
2 Corinthians 5:12 ου γαρ παλιν εαυτους συνιστανομεν υμιν αλλα αφορμην διδοντες υμιν καυχηματος υπερ ημων ινα εχητε προς τους εν προσωπω καυχωμενους και ου καρδια
2 Corinthians 5:12 For we commend not ourselves again unto you, but give you occasion to glory on our behalf, that ye may have somewhat to answer them which glory in appearance, and not in heart.
2 Corinthians 5:13 ειτε γαρ εξεστημεν θεω ειτε σωφρονουμεν υμιν
2 Corinthians 5:13 For whether we be beside ourselves, it is to God: or whether we be sober, it is for your cause.
2 Corinthians 5:14 η γαρ αγαπη του χριστου συνεχει ημας κριναντας τουτο οτι ει εις υπερ παντων απεθανεν αρα οι παντες απεθανον
2 Corinthians 5:14 For the love of Christ constraineth us; because we thus judge, that if one died for all, then were all dead:
2 Corinthians 5:15 και υπερ παντων απεθανεν ινα οι ζωντες μηκετι εαυτοις ζωσιν αλλα τω υπερ αυτων αποθανοντι και εγερθεντι
2 Corinthians 5:15 And that he died for all, that they which live should not henceforth live unto themselves, but unto him which died for them, and rose again.
2 Corinthians 5:16 ωστε ημεις απο του νυν ουδενα οιδαμεν κατα σαρκα ει δε και εγνωκαμεν κατα σαρκα χριστον αλλα νυν ουκετι γινωσκομεν
2 Corinthians 5:16 Wherefore henceforth know we no man after the flesh: yea, though we have known Christ after the flesh, yet now henceforth know we him no more.
2 Corinthians 5:17 ωστε ει τις εν χριστω καινη κτισις τα αρχαια παρηλθεν ιδου γεγονεν καινα τα παντα
2 Corinthians 5:17 Therefore if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature: old things are passed away; behold, all things are become new.
2 Corinthians 5:18 τα δε παντα εκ του θεου του καταλλαξαντος ημας εαυτω δια ιησου χριστου και δοντος ημιν την διακονιαν της καταλλαγης
2 Corinthians 5:18 And all things are of God, who hath reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ, and hath given to us the ministry of reconciliation;
2 Corinthians 5:19 ως οτι θεος ην εν χριστω κοσμον καταλλασσων εαυτω μη λογιζομενος αυτοις τα παραπτωματα αυτων και θεμενος εν ημιν τον λογον της καταλλαγης
2 Corinthians 5:19 To wit, that God was in Christ, reconciling the world unto himself, not imputing their trespasses unto them; and hath committed unto us the word of reconciliation.
2 Corinthians 5:20 υπερ χριστου ουν πρεσβευομεν ως του θεου παρακαλουντος δι ημων δεομεθα υπερ χριστου καταλλαγητε τω θεω
2 Corinthians 5:20 Now then we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God did beseech you by us: we pray you in Christ's stead, be ye reconciled to God.
2 Corinthians 5:21 τον γαρ μη γνοντα αμαρτιαν υπερ ημων αμαρτιαν εποιησεν ινα ημεις γινωμεθα δικαιοσυνη θεου εν αυτω
2 Corinthians 5:21 For he hath made him to be sin for us, who knew no sin; that we might be made the righteousness of God in him.
2 Corinthians 6:1 συνεργουντες δε και παρακαλουμεν μη εις κενον την χαριν του θεου δεξασθαι υμας
2 Corinthians 6:1 We then, as workers together with him, beseech you also that ye receive not the grace of God in vain.
2 Corinthians 6:2 λεγει γαρ καιρω δεκτω επηκουσα σου και εν ημερα σωτηριας εβοηθησα σοι ιδου νυν καιρος ευπροσδεκτος ιδου νυν ημερα σωτηριας
2 Corinthians 6:2 (For he saith, I have heard thee in a time accepted, and in the day of salvation have I succoured thee: behold, now is the accepted time; behold, now is the day of salvation.)
2 Corinthians 6:3 μηδεμιαν εν μηδενι διδοντες προσκοπην ινα μη μωμηθη η διακονια
2 Corinthians 6:3 Giving no offence in any thing, that the ministry be not blamed:
2 Corinthians 6:4 αλλ εν παντι συνιστωντες εαυτους ως θεου διακονοι εν υπομονη πολλη εν θλιψεσιν εν αναγκαις εν στενοχωριαις
2 Corinthians 6:4 But in all things approving ourselves as the ministers of God, in much patience, in afflictions, in necessities, in distresses,
2 Corinthians 6:5 εν πληγαις εν φυλακαις εν ακαταστασιαις εν κοποις εν αγρυπνιαις εν νηστειαις
2 Corinthians 6:5 In stripes, in imprisonments, in tumults, in labours, in watchings, in fastings;
2 Corinthians 6:6 εν αγνοτητι εν γνωσει εν μακροθυμια εν χρηστοτητι εν πνευματι αγιω εν αγαπη ανυποκριτω
2 Corinthians 6:6 By pureness, by knowledge, by longsuffering, by kindness, by the Holy Ghost, by love unfeigned,
2 Corinthians 6:7 εν λογω αληθειας εν δυναμει θεου δια των οπλων της δικαιοσυνης των δεξιων και αριστερων
2 Corinthians 6:7 By the word of truth, by the power of God, by the armour of righteousness on the right hand and on the left,
2 Corinthians 6:8 δια δοξης και ατιμιας δια δυσφημιας και ευφημιας ως πλανοι και αληθεις
2 Corinthians 6:8 By honour and dishonour, by evil report and good report: as deceivers, and yet true;
2 Corinthians 6:9 ως αγνοουμενοι και επιγινωσκομενοι ως αποθνησκοντες και ιδου ζωμεν ως παιδευομενοι και μη θανατουμενοι
2 Corinthians 6:9 As unknown, and yet well known; as dying, and, behold, we live; as chastened, and not killed;
2 Corinthians 6:10 ως λυπουμενοι αει δε χαιροντες ως πτωχοι πολλους δε πλουτιζοντες ως μηδεν εχοντες και παντα κατεχοντες
2 Corinthians 6:10 As sorrowful, yet alway rejoicing; as poor, yet making many rich; as having nothing, and yet possessing all things.
2 Corinthians 6:11 το στομα ημων ανεωγεν προς υμας κορινθιοι η καρδια ημων πεπλατυνται
2 Corinthians 6:11 O ye Corinthians, our mouth is open unto you, our heart is enlarged.
2 Corinthians 6:12 ου στενοχωρεισθε εν ημιν στενοχωρεισθε δε εν τοις σπλαγχνοις υμων
2 Corinthians 6:12 Ye are not straitened in us, but ye are straitened in your own bowels.
2 Corinthians 6:13 την δε αυτην αντιμισθιαν ως τεκνοις λεγω πλατυνθητε και υμεις
2 Corinthians 6:13 Now for a recompence in the same, (I speak as unto my children,) be ye also enlarged.
2 Corinthians 6:14 μη γινεσθε ετεροζυγουντες απιστοις τις γαρ μετοχη δικαιοσυνη και ανομια τις δε κοινωνια φωτι προς σκοτος
2 Corinthians 6:14 Be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers: for what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness? and what communion hath light with darkness?
2 Corinthians 6:15 τις δε συμφωνησις χριστω προς βελιαρ η τις μερις πιστω μετα απιστου
2 Corinthians 6:15 And what concord hath Christ with Belial? or what part hath he that believeth with an infidel?
2 Corinthians 6:16 τις δε συγκαταθεσις ναω θεου μετα ειδωλων υμεις γαρ ναος θεου εστε ζωντος καθως ειπεν ο θεος οτι ενοικησω εν αυτοις και εμπεριπατησω και εσομαι αυτων θεος και αυτοι εσονται μοι λαος
2 Corinthians 6:16 And what agreement hath the temple of God with idols? for ye are the temple of the living God; as God hath said, I will dwell in them, and walk in them; and I will be their God, and they shall be my people.
2 Corinthians 6:17 διο εξελθετε εκ μεσου αυτων και αφορισθητε λεγει κυριος και ακαθαρτου μη απτεσθε καγω εισδεξομαι υμας
2 Corinthians 6:17 Wherefore come out from among them, and be ye separate, saith the Lord, and touch not the unclean thing; and I will receive you.
2 Corinthians 6:18 και εσομαι υμιν εις πατερα και υμεις εσεσθε μοι εις υιους και θυγατερας λεγει κυριος παντοκρατωρ
2 Corinthians 6:18 And will be a Father unto you, and ye shall be my sons and daughters, saith the Lord Almighty.
2 Corinthians 7:1 ταυτας ουν εχοντες τας επαγγελιας αγαπητοι καθαρισωμεν εαυτους απο παντος μολυσμου σαρκος και πνευματος επιτελουντες αγιωσυνην εν φοβω θεου
2 Corinthians 7:1 Having therefore these promises, dearly beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of God.
2 Corinthians 7:2 χωρησατε ημας ουδενα ηδικησαμεν ουδενα εφθειραμεν ουδενα επλεονεκτησαμεν
2 Corinthians 7:2 Receive us; we have wronged no man, we have corrupted no man, we have defrauded no man.
2 Corinthians 7:3 ου προς κατακρισιν λεγω προειρηκα γαρ οτι εν ταις καρδιαις ημων εστε εις το συναποθανειν και συζην
2 Corinthians 7:3 I speak not this to condemn you: for I have said before, that ye are in our hearts to die and live with you.
2 Corinthians 7:4 πολλη μοι παρρησια προς υμας πολλη μοι καυχησις υπερ υμων πεπληρωμαι τη παρακλησει υπερπερισσευομαι τη χαρα επι παση τη θλιψει ημων
2 Corinthians 7:4 Great is my boldness of speech toward you, great is my glorying of you: I am filled with comfort, I am exceeding joyful in all our tribulation.
2 Corinthians 7:5 και γαρ ελθοντων ημων εις μακεδονιαν ουδεμιαν εσχηκεν ανεσιν η σαρξ ημων αλλ εν παντι θλιβομενοι εξωθεν μαχαι εσωθεν φοβοι
2 Corinthians 7:5 For, when we were come into Macedonia, our flesh had no rest, but we were troubled on every side; without were fightings, within were fears.
2 Corinthians 7:6 αλλ ο παρακαλων τους ταπεινους παρεκαλεσεν ημας ο θεος εν τη παρουσια τιτου
2 Corinthians 7:6 Nevertheless God, that comforteth those that are cast down, comforted us by the coming of Titus;
2 Corinthians 7:7 ου μονον δε εν τη παρουσια αυτου αλλα και εν τη παρακλησει η παρεκληθη εφ υμιν αναγγελλων ημιν την υμων επιποθησιν τον υμων οδυρμον τον υμων ζηλον υπερ εμου ωστε με μαλλον χαρηναι
2 Corinthians 7:7 And not by his coming only, but by the consolation wherewith he was comforted in you, when he told us your earnest desire, your mourning, your fervent mind toward me; so that I rejoiced the more.
2 Corinthians 7:8 οτι ει και ελυπησα υμας εν τη επιστολη ου μεταμελομαι ει και μετεμελομην βλεπω γαρ οτι η επιστολη εκεινη ει και προς ωραν ελυπησεν υμας
2 Corinthians 7:8 For though I made you sorry with a letter, I do not repent, though I did repent: for I perceive that the same epistle hath made you sorry, though it were but for a season.
2 Corinthians 7:9 νυν χαιρω ουχ οτι ελυπηθητε αλλ οτι ελυπηθητε εις μετανοιαν ελυπηθητε γαρ κατα θεον ινα εν μηδενι ζημιωθητε εξ ημων
2 Corinthians 7:9 Now I rejoice, not that ye were made sorry, but that ye sorrowed to repentance: for ye were made sorry after a godly manner, that ye might receive damage by us in nothing.
2 Corinthians 7:10 η γαρ κατα θεον λυπη μετανοιαν εις σωτηριαν αμεταμελητον κατεργαζεται η δε του κοσμου λυπη θανατον κατεργαζεται
2 Corinthians 7:10 For godly sorrow worketh repentance to salvation not to be repented of: but the sorrow of the world worketh death.
2 Corinthians 7:11 ιδου γαρ αυτο τουτο το κατα θεον λυπηθηναι υμας ποσην κατειργασατο υμιν σπουδην αλλα απολογιαν αλλα αγανακτησιν αλλα φοβον αλλα επιποθησιν αλλα ζηλον αλλ εκδικησιν εν παντι συνεστησατε εαυτους αγνους ειναι εν τω πραγματι
2 Corinthians 7:11 For behold this selfsame thing, that ye sorrowed after a godly sort, what carefulness it wrought in you, yea, what clearing of yourselves, yea, what indignation, yea, what fear, yea, what vehement desire, yea, what zeal, yea, what revenge! In all things ye have approved yourselves to be clear in this matter.
2 Corinthians 7:12 αρα ει και εγραψα υμιν ουχ εινεκεν του αδικησαντος ουδε εινεκεν του αδικηθεντος αλλ εινεκεν του φανερωθηναι την σπουδην υμων την υπερ ημων προς υμας ενωπιον του θεου
2 Corinthians 7:12 Wherefore, though I wrote unto you, I did it not for his cause that had done the wrong, nor for his cause that suffered wrong, but that our care for you in the sight of God might appear unto you.
2 Corinthians 7:13 δια τουτο παρακεκλημεθα επι τη παρακλησει υμων περισσοτερως δε μαλλον εχαρημεν επι τη χαρα τιτου οτι αναπεπαυται το πνευμα αυτου απο παντων υμων
2 Corinthians 7:13 Therefore we were comforted in your comfort: yea, and exceedingly the more joyed we for the joy of Titus, because his spirit was refreshed by you all.
2 Corinthians 7:14 οτι ει τι αυτω υπερ υμων κεκαυχημαι ου κατησχυνθην αλλ ως παντα εν αληθεια ελαλησαμεν υμιν ουτως και η καυχησις ημων η επι τιτου αληθεια εγενηθη
2 Corinthians 7:14 For if I have boasted any thing to him of you, I am not ashamed; but as we spake all things to you in truth, even so our boasting, which I made before Titus, is found a truth.
2 Corinthians 7:15 και τα σπλαγχνα αυτου περισσοτερως εις υμας εστιν αναμιμνησκομενου την παντων υμων υπακοην ως μετα φοβου και τρομου εδεξασθε αυτον
2 Corinthians 7:15 And his inward affection is more abundant toward you, whilst he remembereth the obedience of you all, how with fear and trembling ye received him.
2 Corinthians 7:16 χαιρω οτι εν παντι θαρρω εν υμιν
2 Corinthians 7:16 I rejoice therefore that I have confidence in you in all things.
2 Corinthians 8:1 γνωριζομεν δε υμιν αδελφοι την χαριν του θεου την δεδομενην εν ταις εκκλησιαις της μακεδονιας
2 Corinthians 8:1 Moreover, brethren, we do you to wit of the grace of God bestowed on the churches of Macedonia;
2 Corinthians 8:2 οτι εν πολλη δοκιμη θλιψεως η περισσεια της χαρας αυτων και η κατα βαθους πτωχεια αυτων επερισσευσεν εις τον πλουτον της απλοτητος αυτων
2 Corinthians 8:2 How that in a great trial of affliction the abundance of their joy and their deep poverty abounded unto the riches of their liberality.
2 Corinthians 8:3 οτι κατα δυναμιν μαρτυρω και υπερ δυναμιν αυθαιρετοι
2 Corinthians 8:3 For to their power, I bear record, yea, and beyond their power they were willing of themselves;
2 Corinthians 8:4 μετα πολλης παρακλησεως δεομενοι ημων την χαριν και την κοινωνιαν της διακονιας της εις τους αγιους δεξασθαι ημας
2 Corinthians 8:4 Praying us with much intreaty that we would receive the gift, and take upon us the fellowship of the ministering to the saints.
2 Corinthians 8:5 και ου καθως ηλπισαμεν αλλ εαυτους εδωκαν πρωτον τω κυριω και ημιν δια θεληματος θεου
2 Corinthians 8:5 And this they did, not as we hoped, but first gave their own selves to the Lord, and unto us by the will of God.
2 Corinthians 8:6 εις το παρακαλεσαι ημας τιτον ινα καθως προενηρξατο ουτως και επιτελεση εις υμας και την χαριν ταυτην
2 Corinthians 8:6 Insomuch that we desired Titus, that as he had begun, so he would also finish in you the same grace also.
2 Corinthians 8:7 αλλ ωσπερ εν παντι περισσευετε πιστει και λογω και γνωσει και παση σπουδη και τη εξ υμων εν ημιν αγαπη ινα και εν ταυτη τη χαριτι περισσευητε
2 Corinthians 8:7 Therefore, as ye abound in every thing, in faith, and utterance, and knowledge, and in all diligence, and in your love to us, see that ye abound in this grace also.
2 Corinthians 8:8 ου κατ επιταγην λεγω αλλα δια της ετερων σπουδης και το της υμετερας αγαπης γνησιον δοκιμαζων
2 Corinthians 8:8 I speak not by commandment, but by occasion of the forwardness of others, and to prove the sincerity of your love.
2 Corinthians 8:9 γινωσκετε γαρ την χαριν του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου οτι δι υμας επτωχευσεν πλουσιος ων ινα υμεις τη εκεινου πτωχεια πλουτησητε
2 Corinthians 8:9 For ye know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that, though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor, that ye through his poverty might be rich.
2 Corinthians 8:10 και γνωμην εν τουτω διδωμι τουτο γαρ υμιν συμφερει οιτινες ου μονον το ποιησαι αλλα και το θελειν προενηρξασθε απο περυσι
2 Corinthians 8:10 And herein I give my advice: for this is expedient for you, who have begun before, not only to do, but also to be forward a year ago.
2 Corinthians 8:11 νυνι δε και το ποιησαι επιτελεσατε οπως καθαπερ η προθυμια του θελειν ουτως και το επιτελεσαι εκ του εχειν
2 Corinthians 8:11 Now therefore perform the doing of it; that as there was a readiness to will, so there may be a performance also out of that which ye have.
2 Corinthians 8:12 ει γαρ η προθυμια προκειται καθο εαν εχη τις ευπροσδεκτος ου καθο ουκ εχει
2 Corinthians 8:12 For if there be first a willing mind, it is accepted according to that a man hath, and not according to that he hath not.
2 Corinthians 8:13 ου γαρ ινα αλλοις ανεσις υμιν δε θλιψις αλλ εξ ισοτητος εν τω νυν καιρω το υμων περισσευμα εις το εκεινων υστερημα
2 Corinthians 8:13 For I mean not that other men be eased, and ye burdened:
2 Corinthians 8:14 ινα και το εκεινων περισσευμα γενηται εις το υμων υστερημα οπως γενηται ισοτης
2 Corinthians 8:14 But by an equality, that now at this time your abundance may be a supply for their want, that their abundance also may be a supply for your want: that there may be equality:
2 Corinthians 8:15 καθως γεγραπται ο το πολυ ουκ επλεονασεν και ο το ολιγον ουκ ηλαττονησεν
2 Corinthians 8:15 As it is written, He that had gathered much had nothing over; and he that had gathered little had no lack.
2 Corinthians 8:16 χαρις δε τω θεω τω διδοντι την αυτην σπουδην υπερ υμων εν τη καρδια τιτου
2 Corinthians 8:16 But thanks be to God, which put the same earnest care into the heart of Titus for you.
2 Corinthians 8:17 οτι την μεν παρακλησιν εδεξατο σπουδαιοτερος δε υπαρχων αυθαιρετος εξηλθεν προς υμας
2 Corinthians 8:17 For indeed he accepted the exhortation; but being more forward, of his own accord he went unto you.
2 Corinthians 8:18 συνεπεμψαμεν δε μετ αυτου τον αδελφον ου ο επαινος εν τω ευαγγελιω δια πασων των εκκλησιων
2 Corinthians 8:18 And we have sent with him the brother, whose praise is in the gospel throughout all the churches;
2 Corinthians 8:19 ου μονον δε αλλα και χειροτονηθεις υπο των εκκλησιων συνεκδημος ημων συν τη χαριτι ταυτη τη διακονουμενη υφ ημων προς την αυτου του κυριου δοξαν και προθυμιαν υμων
2 Corinthians 8:19 And not that only, but who was also chosen of the churches to travel with us with this grace, which is administered by us to the glory of the same Lord, and declaration of your ready mind:
2 Corinthians 8:20 στελλομενοι τουτο μη τις ημας μωμησηται εν τη αδροτητι ταυτη τη διακονουμενη υφ ημων
2 Corinthians 8:20 Avoiding this, that no man should blame us in this abundance which is administered by us:
2 Corinthians 8:21 προνοουμενοι καλα ου μονον ενωπιον κυριου αλλα και ενωπιον ανθρωπων
2 Corinthians 8:21 Providing for honest things, not only in the sight of the Lord, but also in the sight of men.
2 Corinthians 8:22 συνεπεμψαμεν δε αυτοις τον αδελφον ημων ον εδοκιμασαμεν εν πολλοις πολλακις σπουδαιον οντα νυνι δε πολυ σπουδαιοτερον πεποιθησει πολλη τη εις υμας
2 Corinthians 8:22 And we have sent with them our brother, whom we have oftentimes proved diligent in many things, but now much more diligent, upon the great confidence which I have in you.
2 Corinthians 8:23 ειτε υπερ τιτου κοινωνος εμος και εις υμας συνεργος ειτε αδελφοι ημων αποστολοι εκκλησιων δοξα χριστου
2 Corinthians 8:23 Whether any do enquire of Titus, he is my partner and fellowhelper concerning you: or our brethren be enquired of, they are the messengers of the churches, and the glory of Christ.
2 Corinthians 8:24 την ουν ενδειξιν της αγαπης υμων και ημων καυχησεως υπερ υμων εις αυτους ενδειξασθε και εις προσωπον των εκκλησιων
2 Corinthians 8:24 Wherefore shew ye to them, and before the churches, the proof of your love, and of our boasting on your behalf.
2 Corinthians 9:1 περι μεν γαρ της διακονιας της εις τους αγιους περισσον μοι εστιν το γραφειν υμιν
2 Corinthians 9:1 For as touching the ministering to the saints, it is superfluous for me to write to you:
2 Corinthians 9:2 οιδα γαρ την προθυμιαν υμων ην υπερ υμων καυχωμαι μακεδοσιν οτι αχαια παρεσκευασται απο περυσι και ο εξ υμων ζηλος ηρεθισεν τους πλειονας
2 Corinthians 9:2 For I know the forwardness of your mind, for which I boast of you to them of Macedonia, that Achaia was ready a year ago; and your zeal hath provoked very many.
2 Corinthians 9:3 επεμψα δε τους αδελφους ινα μη το καυχημα ημων το υπερ υμων κενωθη εν τω μερει τουτω ινα καθως ελεγον παρεσκευασμενοι ητε
2 Corinthians 9:3 Yet have I sent the brethren, lest our boasting of you should be in vain in this behalf; that, as I said, ye may be ready:
2 Corinthians 9:4 μηπως εαν ελθωσιν συν εμοι μακεδονες και ευρωσιν υμας απαρασκευαστους καταισχυνθωμεν ημεις ινα μη λεγωμεν υμεις εν τη υποστασει ταυτη της καυχησεως
2 Corinthians 9:4 Lest haply if they of Macedonia come with me, and find you unprepared, we (that we say not, ye) should be ashamed in this same confident boasting.
2 Corinthians 9:5 αναγκαιον ουν ηγησαμην παρακαλεσαι τους αδελφους ινα προελθωσιν εις υμας και προκαταρτισωσιν την προκατηγγελμενην ευλογιαν υμων ταυτην ετοιμην ειναι ουτως ως ευλογιαν και μη ωσπερ πλεονεξιαν
2 Corinthians 9:5 Therefore I thought it necessary to exhort the brethren, that they would go before unto you, and make up beforehand your bounty, whereof ye had notice before, that the same might be ready, as a matter of bounty, and not as of covetousness.
2 Corinthians 9:6 τουτο δε ο σπειρων φειδομενως φειδομενως και θερισει και ο σπειρων επ ευλογιαις επ ευλογιαις και θερισει
2 Corinthians 9:6 But this I say, He which soweth sparingly shall reap also sparingly; and he which soweth bountifully shall reap also bountifully.
2 Corinthians 9:7 εκαστος καθως προαιρειται τη καρδια μη εκ λυπης η εξ αναγκης ιλαρον γαρ δοτην αγαπα ο θεος
2 Corinthians 9:7 Every man according as he purposeth in his heart, so let him give; not grudgingly, or of necessity: for God loveth a cheerful giver.
2 Corinthians 9:8 δυνατος δε ο θεος πασαν χαριν περισσευσαι εις υμας ινα εν παντι παντοτε πασαν αυταρκειαν εχοντες περισσευητε εις παν εργον αγαθον
2 Corinthians 9:8 And God is able to make all grace abound toward you; that ye, always having all sufficiency in all things, may abound to every good work:
2 Corinthians 9:9 καθως γεγραπται εσκορπισεν εδωκεν τοις πενησιν η δικαιοσυνη αυτου μενει εις τον αιωνα
2 Corinthians 9:9 (As it is written, He hath dispersed abroad; he hath given to the poor: his righteousness remaineth for ever.
2 Corinthians 9:10 ο δε επιχορηγων σπερμα τω σπειροντι και αρτον εις βρωσιν χορηγησαι και πληθυναι τον σπορον υμων και αυξησαι τα γεννηματα της δικαιοσυνης υμων
2 Corinthians 9:10 Now he that ministereth seed to the sower both minister bread for your food, and multiply your seed sown, and increase the fruits of your righteousness;)
2 Corinthians 9:11 εν παντι πλουτιζομενοι εις πασαν απλοτητα ητις κατεργαζεται δι ημων ευχαριστιαν τω θεω
2 Corinthians 9:11 Being enriched in every thing to all bountifulness, which causeth through us thanksgiving to God.
2 Corinthians 9:12 οτι η διακονια της λειτουργιας ταυτης ου μονον εστιν προσαναπληρουσα τα υστερηματα των αγιων αλλα και περισσευουσα δια πολλων ευχαριστιων τω θεω
2 Corinthians 9:12 For the administration of this service not only supplieth the want of the saints, but is abundant also by many thanksgivings unto God;
2 Corinthians 9:13 δια της δοκιμης της διακονιας ταυτης δοξαζοντες τον θεον επι τη υποταγη της ομολογιας υμων εις το ευαγγελιον του χριστου και απλοτητι της κοινωνιας εις αυτους και εις παντας
2 Corinthians 9:13 Whiles by the experiment of this ministration they glorify God for your professed subjection unto the gospel of Christ, and for your liberal distribution unto them, and unto all men;
2 Corinthians 9:14 και αυτων δεησει υπερ υμων επιποθουντων υμας δια την υπερβαλλουσαν χαριν του θεου εφ υμιν
2 Corinthians 9:14 And by their prayer for you, which long after you for the exceeding grace of God in you.
2 Corinthians 9:15 χαρις δε τω θεω επι τη ανεκδιηγητω αυτου δωρεα
2 Corinthians 9:15 Thanks be unto God for his unspeakable gift.
2 Corinthians 10:1 αυτος δε εγω παυλος παρακαλω υμας δια της πραοτητος και επιεικειας του χριστου ος κατα προσωπον μεν ταπεινος εν υμιν απων δε θαρρω εις υμας
2 Corinthians 10:1 Now I Paul myself beseech you by the meekness and gentleness of Christ, who in presence am base among you, but being absent am bold toward you:
2 Corinthians 10:2 δεομαι δε το μη παρων θαρρησαι τη πεποιθησει η λογιζομαι τολμησαι επι τινας τους λογιζομενους ημας ως κατα σαρκα περιπατουντας
2 Corinthians 10:2 But I beseech you, that I may not be bold when I am present with that confidence, wherewith I think to be bold against some, which think of us as if we walked according to the flesh.
2 Corinthians 10:3 εν σαρκι γαρ περιπατουντες ου κατα σαρκα στρατευομεθα
2 Corinthians 10:3 For though we walk in the flesh, we do not war after the flesh:
2 Corinthians 10:4 τα γαρ οπλα της στρατειας ημων ου σαρκικα αλλα δυνατα τω θεω προς καθαιρεσιν οχυρωματων
2 Corinthians 10:4 (For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God to the pulling down of strong holds;)
2 Corinthians 10:5 λογισμους καθαιρουντες και παν υψωμα επαιρομενον κατα της γνωσεως του θεου και αιχμαλωτιζοντες παν νοημα εις την υπακοην του χριστου
2 Corinthians 10:5 Casting down imaginations, and every high thing that exalteth itself against the knowledge of God, and bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ;
2 Corinthians 10:6 και εν ετοιμω εχοντες εκδικησαι πασαν παρακοην οταν πληρωθη υμων η υπακοη
2 Corinthians 10:6 And having in a readiness to revenge all disobedience, when your obedience is fulfilled.
2 Corinthians 10:7 τα κατα προσωπον βλεπετε ει τις πεποιθεν εαυτω χριστου ειναι τουτο λογιζεσθω παλιν αφ εαυτου οτι καθως αυτος χριστου ουτως και ημεις χριστου
2 Corinthians 10:7 Do ye look on things after the outward appearance? If any man trust to himself that he is Christ's, let him of himself think this again, that, as he is Christ's, even so are we Christ's.
2 Corinthians 10:8 εαν τε γαρ και περισσοτερον τι καυχησωμαι περι της εξουσιας ημων ης εδωκεν ο κυριος ημιν εις οικοδομην και ουκ εις καθαιρεσιν υμων ουκ αισχυνθησομαι
2 Corinthians 10:8 For though I should boast somewhat more of our authority, which the Lord hath given us for edification, and not for your destruction, I should not be ashamed:
2 Corinthians 10:9 ινα μη δοξω ως αν εκφοβειν υμας δια των επιστολων
2 Corinthians 10:9 That I may not seem as if I would terrify you by letters.
2 Corinthians 10:10 οτι αι μεν επιστολαι φησιν βαρειαι και ισχυραι η δε παρουσια του σωματος ασθενης και ο λογος εξουθενημενος
2 Corinthians 10:10 For his letters, say they, are weighty and powerful; but his bodily presence is weak, and his speech contemptible.
2 Corinthians 10:11 τουτο λογιζεσθω ο τοιουτος οτι οιοι εσμεν τω λογω δι επιστολων αποντες τοιουτοι και παροντες τω εργω
2 Corinthians 10:11 Let such an one think this, that, such as we are in word by letters when we are absent, such will we be also in deed when we are present.
2 Corinthians 10:12 ου γαρ τολμωμεν εγκριναι η συγκριναι εαυτους τισιν των εαυτους συνιστανοντων αλλα αυτοι εν εαυτοις εαυτους μετρουντες και συγκρινοντες εαυτους εαυτοις ου συνιουσιν
2 Corinthians 10:12 For we dare not make ourselves of the number, or compare ourselves with some that commend themselves: but they measuring themselves by themselves, and comparing themselves among themselves, are not wise.
2 Corinthians 10:13 ημεις δε ουχι εις τα αμετρα καυχησομεθα αλλα κατα το μετρον του κανονος ου εμερισεν ημιν ο θεος μετρου εφικεσθαι αχρι και υμων
2 Corinthians 10:13 But we will not boast of things without our measure, but according to the measure of the rule which God hath distributed to us, a measure to reach even unto you.
2 Corinthians 10:14 ου γαρ ως μη εφικνουμενοι εις υμας υπερεκτεινομεν εαυτους αχρι γαρ και υμων εφθασαμεν εν τω ευαγγελιω του χριστου
2 Corinthians 10:14 For we stretch not ourselves beyond our measure, as though we reached not unto you: for we are come as far as to you also in preaching the gospel of Christ:
2 Corinthians 10:15 ουκ εις τα αμετρα καυχωμενοι εν αλλοτριοις κοποις ελπιδα δε εχοντες αυξανομενης της πιστεως υμων εν υμιν μεγαλυνθηναι κατα τον κανονα ημων εις περισσειαν
2 Corinthians 10:15 Not boasting of things without our measure, that is, of other men's labours; but having hope, when your faith is increased, that we shall be enlarged by you according to our rule abundantly,
2 Corinthians 10:16 εις τα υπερεκεινα υμων ευαγγελισασθαι ουκ εν αλλοτριω κανονι εις τα ετοιμα καυχησασθαι
2 Corinthians 10:16 To preach the gospel in the regions beyond you, and not to boast in another man's line of things made ready to our hand.
2 Corinthians 10:17 ο δε καυχωμενος εν κυριω καυχασθω
2 Corinthians 10:17 But he that glorieth, let him glory in the Lord.
2 Corinthians 10:18 ου γαρ ο εαυτον συνιστων εκεινος εστιν δοκιμος αλλ ον ο κυριος συνιστησιν
2 Corinthians 10:18 For not he that commendeth himself is approved, but whom the Lord commendeth.
2 Corinthians 11:1 οφελον ανειχεσθε μου μικρον τη αφροσυνη αλλα και ανεχεσθε μου
2 Corinthians 11:1 Would to God ye could bear with me a little in my folly: and indeed bear with me.
2 Corinthians 11:2 ζηλω γαρ υμας θεου ζηλω ηρμοσαμην γαρ υμας ενι ανδρι παρθενον αγνην παραστησαι τω χριστω
2 Corinthians 11:2 For I am jealous over you with godly jealousy: for I have espoused you to one husband, that I may present you as a chaste virgin to Christ.
2 Corinthians 11:3 φοβουμαι δε μηπως ως ο οφις ευαν εξηπατησεν εν τη πανουργια αυτου ουτως φθαρη τα νοηματα υμων απο της απλοτητος της εις τον χριστον
2 Corinthians 11:3 But I fear, lest by any means, as the serpent beguiled Eve through his subtilty, so your minds should be corrupted from the simplicity that is in Christ.
2 Corinthians 11:4 ει μεν γαρ ο ερχομενος αλλον ιησουν κηρυσσει ον ουκ εκηρυξαμεν η πνευμα ετερον λαμβανετε ο ουκ ελαβετε η ευαγγελιον ετερον ο ουκ εδεξασθε καλως ηνειχεσθε
2 Corinthians 11:4 For if he that cometh preacheth another Jesus, whom we have not preached, or if ye receive another spirit, which ye have not received, or another gospel, which ye have not accepted, ye might well bear with him.
2 Corinthians 11:5 λογιζομαι γαρ μηδεν υστερηκεναι των υπερ λιαν αποστολων
2 Corinthians 11:5 For I suppose I was not a whit behind the very chiefest apostles.
2 Corinthians 11:6 ει δε και ιδιωτης τω λογω αλλ ου τη γνωσει αλλ εν παντι φανερωθεντες εν πασιν εις υμας
2 Corinthians 11:6 But though I be rude in speech, yet not in knowledge; but we have been throughly made manifest among you in all things.
2 Corinthians 11:7 η αμαρτιαν εποιησα εμαυτον ταπεινων ινα υμεις υψωθητε οτι δωρεαν το του θεου ευαγγελιον ευηγγελισαμην υμιν
2 Corinthians 11:7 Have I committed an offence in abasing myself that ye might be exalted, because I have preached to you the gospel of God freely?
2 Corinthians 11:8 αλλας εκκλησιας εσυλησα λαβων οψωνιον προς την υμων διακονιαν
2 Corinthians 11:8 I robbed other churches, taking wages of them, to do you service.
2 Corinthians 11:9 και παρων προς υμας και υστερηθεις ου κατεναρκησα ουδενος το γαρ υστερημα μου προσανεπληρωσαν οι αδελφοι ελθοντες απο μακεδονιας και εν παντι αβαρη υμιν εμαυτον ετηρησα και τηρησω
2 Corinthians 11:9 And when I was present with you, and wanted, I was chargeable to no man: for that which was lacking to me the brethren which came from Macedonia supplied: and in all things I have kept myself from being burdensome unto you, and so will I keep myself.
2 Corinthians 11:10 εστιν αληθεια χριστου εν εμοι οτι η καυχησις αυτη ου σφραγισεται εις εμε εν τοις κλιμασιν της αχαιας
2 Corinthians 11:10 As the truth of Christ is in me, no man shall stop me of this boasting in the regions of Achaia.
2 Corinthians 11:11 διατι οτι ουκ αγαπω υμας ο θεος οιδεν
2 Corinthians 11:11 Wherefore? because I love you not? God knoweth.
2 Corinthians 11:12 ο δε ποιω και ποιησω ινα εκκοψω την αφορμην των θελοντων αφορμην ινα εν ω καυχωνται ευρεθωσιν καθως και ημεις
2 Corinthians 11:12 But what I do, that I will do, that I may cut off occasion from them which desire occasion; that wherein they glory, they may be found even as we.
2 Corinthians 11:13 οι γαρ τοιουτοι ψευδαποστολοι εργαται δολιοι μετασχηματιζομενοι εις αποστολους χριστου
2 Corinthians 11:13 For such are false apostles, deceitful workers, transforming themselves into the apostles of Christ.
2 Corinthians 11:14 και ου θαυμαστον αυτος γαρ ο σατανας μετασχηματιζεται εις αγγελον φωτος
2 Corinthians 11:14 And no marvel; for Satan himself is transformed into an angel of light.
2 Corinthians 11:15 ου μεγα ουν ει και οι διακονοι αυτου μετασχηματιζονται ως διακονοι δικαιοσυνης ων το τελος εσται κατα τα εργα αυτων
2 Corinthians 11:15 Therefore it is no great thing if his ministers also be transformed as the ministers of righteousness; whose end shall be according to their works.
2 Corinthians 11:16 παλιν λεγω μη τις με δοξη αφρονα ειναι ει δε μηγε καν ως αφρονα δεξασθε με ινα μικρον τι καγω καυχησωμαι
2 Corinthians 11:16 I say again, Let no man think me a fool; if otherwise, yet as a fool receive me, that I may boast myself a little.
2 Corinthians 11:17 ο λαλω ου λαλω κατα κυριον αλλ ως εν αφροσυνη εν ταυτη τη υποστασει της καυχησεως
2 Corinthians 11:17 That which I speak, I speak it not after the Lord, but as it were foolishly, in this confidence of boasting.
2 Corinthians 11:18 επει πολλοι καυχωνται κατα την σαρκα καγω καυχησομαι
2 Corinthians 11:18 Seeing that many glory after the flesh, I will glory also.
2 Corinthians 11:19 ηδεως γαρ ανεχεσθε των αφρονων φρονιμοι οντες
2 Corinthians 11:19 For ye suffer fools gladly, seeing ye yourselves are wise.
2 Corinthians 11:20 ανεχεσθε γαρ ει τις υμας καταδουλοι ει τις κατεσθιει ει τις λαμβανει ει τις επαιρεται ει τις υμας εις προσωπον δερει
2 Corinthians 11:20 For ye suffer, if a man bring you into bondage, if a man devour you, if a man take of you, if a man exalt himself, if a man smite you on the face.
2 Corinthians 11:21 κατα ατιμιαν λεγω ως οτι ημεις ησθενησαμεν εν ω δ αν τις τολμα εν αφροσυνη λεγω τολμω καγω
2 Corinthians 11:21 I speak as concerning reproach, as though we had been weak.  Howbeit whereinsoever any is bold, (I speak foolishly,) I am bold also.
2 Corinthians 11:22 εβραιοι εισιν καγω ισραηλιται εισιν καγω σπερμα αβρααμ εισιν καγω
2 Corinthians 11:22 Are they Hebrews? so am I. Are they Israelites? so am I. Are they the seed of Abraham? so am I.
2 Corinthians 11:23 διακονοι χριστου εισιν παραφρονων λαλω υπερ εγω εν κοποις περισσοτερως εν πληγαις υπερβαλλοντως εν φυλακαις περισσοτερως εν θανατοις πολλακις
2 Corinthians 11:23 Are they ministers of Christ? (I speak as a fool) I am more; in labours more abundant, in stripes above measure, in prisons more frequent, in deaths oft.
2 Corinthians 11:24 υπο ιουδαιων πεντακις τεσσαρακοντα παρα μιαν ελαβον
2 Corinthians 11:24 Of the Jews five times received I forty stripes save one.
2 Corinthians 11:25 τρις ερραβδισθην απαξ ελιθασθην τρις εναυαγησα νυχθημερον εν τω βυθω πεποιηκα
2 Corinthians 11:25 Thrice was I beaten with rods, once was I stoned, thrice I suffered shipwreck, a night and a day I have been in the deep;
2 Corinthians 11:26 οδοιποριαις πολλακις κινδυνοις ποταμων κινδυνοις ληστων κινδυνοις εκ γενους κινδυνοις εξ εθνων κινδυνοις εν πολει κινδυνοις εν ερημια κινδυνοις εν θαλασση κινδυνοις εν ψευδαδελφοις
2 Corinthians 11:26 In journeyings often, in perils of waters, in perils of robbers, in perils by mine own countrymen, in perils by the heathen, in perils in the city, in perils in the wilderness, in perils in the sea, in perils among false brethren;
2 Corinthians 11:27 εν κοπω και μοχθω εν αγρυπνιαις πολλακις εν λιμω και διψει εν νηστειαις πολλακις εν ψυχει και γυμνοτητι
2 Corinthians 11:27 In weariness and painfulness, in watchings often, in hunger and thirst, in fastings often, in cold and nakedness.
2 Corinthians 11:28 χωρις των παρεκτος η επισυστασις μου η καθ ημεραν η μεριμνα πασων των εκκλησιων
2 Corinthians 11:28 Beside those things that are without, that which cometh upon me daily, the care of all the churches.
2 Corinthians 11:29 τις ασθενει και ουκ ασθενω τις σκανδαλιζεται και ουκ εγω πυρουμαι
2 Corinthians 11:29 Who is weak, and I am not weak? who is offended, and I burn not?
2 Corinthians 11:30 ει καυχασθαι δει τα της ασθενειας μου καυχησομαι
2 Corinthians 11:30 If I must needs glory, I will glory of the things which concern mine infirmities.
2 Corinthians 11:31 ο θεος και πατηρ του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου οιδεν ο ων ευλογητος εις τους αιωνας οτι ου ψευδομαι
2 Corinthians 11:31 The God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which is blessed for evermore, knoweth that I lie not.
2 Corinthians 11:32 εν δαμασκω ο εθναρχης αρετα του βασιλεως εφρουρει την δαμασκηνων πολιν πιασαι με θελων
2 Corinthians 11:32 In Damascus the governor under Aretas the king kept the city of the Damascenes with a garrison, desirous to apprehend me:
2 Corinthians 11:33 και δια θυριδος εν σαργανη εχαλασθην δια του τειχους και εξεφυγον τας χειρας αυτου
2 Corinthians 11:33 And through a window in a basket was I let down by the wall, and escaped his hands.
2 Corinthians 12:1 καυχασθαι δη ου συμφερει μοι ελευσομαι γαρ εις οπτασιας και αποκαλυψεις κυριου
2 Corinthians 12:1 It is not expedient for me doubtless to glory. I will come to visions and revelations of the Lord.
2 Corinthians 12:2 οιδα ανθρωπον εν χριστω προ ετων δεκατεσσαρων ειτε εν σωματι ουκ οιδα ειτε εκτος του σωματος ουκ οιδα ο θεος οιδεν αρπαγεντα τον τοιουτον εως τριτου ουρανου
2 Corinthians 12:2 I knew a man in Christ above fourteen years ago, (whether in the body, I cannot tell; or whether out of the body, I cannot tell: God knoweth;) such an one caught up to the third heaven.
2 Corinthians 12:3 και οιδα τον τοιουτον ανθρωπον ειτε εν σωματι ειτε εκτος του σωματος ουκ οιδα ο θεος οιδεν
2 Corinthians 12:3 And I knew such a man, (whether in the body, or out of the body, I cannot tell: God knoweth;)
2 Corinthians 12:4 οτι ηρπαγη εις τον παραδεισον και ηκουσεν αρρητα ρηματα α ουκ εξον ανθρωπω λαλησαι
2 Corinthians 12:4 How that he was caught up into paradise, and heard unspeakable words, which it is not lawful for a man to utter.
2 Corinthians 12:5 υπερ του τοιουτου καυχησομαι υπερ δε εμαυτου ου καυχησομαι ει μη εν ταις ασθενειαις μου
2 Corinthians 12:5 Of such an one will I glory: yet of myself I will not glory, but in mine infirmities.
2 Corinthians 12:6 εαν γαρ θελησω καυχησασθαι ουκ εσομαι αφρων αληθειαν γαρ ερω φειδομαι δε μη τις εις εμε λογισηται υπερ ο βλεπει με η ακουει τι εξ εμου
2 Corinthians 12:6 For though I would desire to glory, I shall not be a fool; for I will say the truth: but now I forbear, lest any man should think of me above that which he seeth me to be, or that he heareth of me.
2 Corinthians 12:7 και τη υπερβολη των αποκαλυψεων ινα μη υπεραιρωμαι εδοθη μοι σκολοψ τη σαρκι αγγελος σαταν ινα με κολαφιζη ινα μη υπεραιρωμαι
2 Corinthians 12:7 And lest I should be exalted above measure through the abundance of the revelations, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh, the messenger of Satan to buffet me, lest I should be exalted above measure.
2 Corinthians 12:8 υπερ τουτου τρις τον κυριον παρεκαλεσα ινα αποστη απ εμου
2 Corinthians 12:8 For this thing I besought the Lord thrice, that it might depart from me.
2 Corinthians 12:9 και ειρηκεν μοι αρκει σοι η χαρις μου η γαρ δυναμις μου εν ασθενεια τελειουται ηδιστα ουν μαλλον καυχησομαι εν ταις ασθενειαις μου ινα επισκηνωση επ εμε η δυναμις του χριστου
2 Corinthians 12:9 And he said unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee: for my strength is made perfect in weakness. Most gladly therefore will I rather glory in my infirmities, that the power of Christ may rest upon me.
2 Corinthians 12:10 διο ευδοκω εν ασθενειαις εν υβρεσιν εν αναγκαις εν διωγμοις εν στενοχωριαις υπερ χριστου οταν γαρ ασθενω τοτε δυνατος ειμι
2 Corinthians 12:10 Therefore I take pleasure in infirmities, in reproaches, in necessities, in persecutions, in distresses for Christ's sake: for when I am weak, then am I strong.
2 Corinthians 12:11 γεγονα αφρων καυχωμενος υμεις με ηναγκασατε εγω γαρ ωφειλον υφ υμων συνιστασθαι ουδεν γαρ υστερησα των υπερ λιαν αποστολων ει και ουδεν ειμι
2 Corinthians 12:11 I am become a fool in glorying; ye have compelled me: for I ought to have been commended of you: for in nothing am I behind the very chiefest apostles, though I be nothing.
2 Corinthians 12:12 τα μεν σημεια του αποστολου κατειργασθη εν υμιν εν παση υπομονη εν σημειοις και τερασιν και δυναμεσιν
2 Corinthians 12:12 Truly the signs of an apostle were wrought among you in all patience, in signs, and wonders, and mighty deeds.
2 Corinthians 12:13 τι γαρ εστιν ο ηττηθητε υπερ τας λοιπας εκκλησιας ει μη οτι αυτος εγω ου κατεναρκησα υμων χαρισασθε μοι την αδικιαν ταυτην
2 Corinthians 12:13 For what is it wherein ye were inferior to other churches, except it be that I myself was not burdensome to you? forgive me this wrong.
2 Corinthians 12:14 ιδου τριτον ετοιμως εχω ελθειν προς υμας και ου καταναρκησω υμων ου γαρ ζητω τα υμων αλλ υμας ου γαρ οφειλει τα τεκνα τοις γονευσιν θησαυριζειν αλλ οι γονεις τοις τεκνοις
2 Corinthians 12:14 Behold, the third time I am ready to come to you; and I will not be burdensome to you: for I seek not your's but you: for the children ought not to lay up for the parents, but the parents for the children.
2 Corinthians 12:15 εγω δε ηδιστα δαπανησω και εκδαπανηθησομαι υπερ των ψυχων υμων ει και περισσοτερως υμας αγαπων ηττον αγαπωμαι
2 Corinthians 12:15 And I will very gladly spend and be spent for you; though the more abundantly I love you, the less I be loved.
2 Corinthians 12:16 εστω δε εγω ου κατεβαρησα υμας αλλ υπαρχων πανουργος δολω υμας ελαβον
2 Corinthians 12:16 But be it so, I did not burden you: nevertheless, being crafty, I caught you with guile.
2 Corinthians 12:17 μη τινα ων απεσταλκα προς υμας δι αυτου επλεονεκτησα υμας
2 Corinthians 12:17 Did I make a gain of you by any of them whom I sent unto you?
2 Corinthians 12:18 παρεκαλεσα τιτον και συναπεστειλα τον αδελφον μη τι επλεονεκτησεν υμας τιτος ου τω αυτω πνευματι περιεπατησαμεν ου τοις αυτοις ιχνεσιν
2 Corinthians 12:18 I desired Titus, and with him I sent a brother. Did Titus make a gain of you? walked we not in the same spirit? walked we not in the same steps?
2 Corinthians 12:19 παλιν δοκειτε οτι υμιν απολογουμεθα κατενωπιον του θεου εν χριστω λαλουμεν τα δε παντα αγαπητοι υπερ της υμων οικοδομης
2 Corinthians 12:19 Again, think ye that we excuse ourselves unto you? we speak before God in Christ: but we do all things, dearly beloved, for your edifying.
2 Corinthians 12:20 φοβουμαι γαρ μηπως ελθων ουχ οιους θελω ευρω υμας καγω ευρεθω υμιν οιον ου θελετε μηπως ερεις ζηλοι θυμοι εριθειαι καταλαλιαι ψιθυρισμοι φυσιωσεις ακαταστασιαι
2 Corinthians 12:20 For I fear, lest, when I come, I shall not find you such as I would, and that I shall be found unto you such as ye would not: lest there be debates, envyings, wraths, strifes, backbitings, whisperings, swellings, tumults:
2 Corinthians 12:21 μη παλιν ελθοντα με ταπεινωση ο θεος μου προς υμας και πενθησω πολλους των προημαρτηκοτων και μη μετανοησαντων επι τη ακαθαρσια και πορνεια και ασελγεια η επραξαν
2 Corinthians 12:21 And lest, when I come again, my God will humble me among you, and that I shall bewail many which have sinned already, and have not repented of the uncleanness and fornication and lasciviousness which they have committed.
2 Corinthians 13:1 τριτον τουτο ερχομαι προς υμας επι στοματος δυο μαρτυρων και τριων σταθησεται παν ρημα
2 Corinthians 13:1 This is the third time I am coming to you. In the mouth of two or three witnesses shall every word be established.
2 Corinthians 13:2 προειρηκα και προλεγω ως παρων το δευτερον και απων νυν γραφω τοις προημαρτηκοσιν και τοις λοιποις πασιν οτι εαν ελθω εις το παλιν ου φεισομαι
2 Corinthians 13:2 I told you before, and foretell you, as if I were present, the second time; and being absent now I write to them which heretofore have sinned, and to all other, that, if I come again, I will not spare:
2 Corinthians 13:3 επει δοκιμην ζητειτε του εν εμοι λαλουντος χριστου ος εις υμας ουκ ασθενει αλλα δυνατει εν υμιν
2 Corinthians 13:3 Since ye seek a proof of Christ speaking in me, which to you-ward is not weak, but is mighty in you.
2 Corinthians 13:4 και γαρ ει εσταυρωθη εξ ασθενειας αλλα ζη εκ δυναμεως θεου και γαρ ημεις ασθενουμεν εν αυτω αλλα ζησομεθα συν αυτω εκ δυναμεως θεου εις υμας
2 Corinthians 13:4 For though he was crucified through weakness, yet he liveth by the power of God. For we also are weak in him, but we shall live with him by the power of God toward you.
2 Corinthians 13:5 εαυτους πειραζετε ει εστε εν τη πιστει εαυτους δοκιμαζετε η ουκ επιγινωσκετε εαυτους οτι ιησους χριστος εν υμιν εστιν ει μη τι αδοκιμοι εστε
2 Corinthians 13:5 Examine yourselves, whether ye be in the faith; prove your own selves. Know ye not your own selves, how that Jesus Christ is in you, except ye be reprobates?
2 Corinthians 13:6 ελπιζω δε οτι γνωσεσθε οτι ημεις ουκ εσμεν αδοκιμοι
2 Corinthians 13:6 But I trust that ye shall know that we are not reprobates.
2 Corinthians 13:7 ευχομαι δε προς τον θεον μη ποιησαι υμας κακον μηδεν ουχ ινα ημεις δοκιμοι φανωμεν αλλ ινα υμεις το καλον ποιητε ημεις δε ως αδοκιμοι ωμεν
2 Corinthians 13:7 Now I pray to God that ye do no evil; not that we should appear approved, but that ye should do that which is honest, though we be as reprobates.
2 Corinthians 13:8 ου γαρ δυναμεθα τι κατα της αληθειας αλλ υπερ της αληθειας
2 Corinthians 13:8 For we can do nothing against the truth, but for the truth.
2 Corinthians 13:9 χαιρομεν γαρ οταν ημεις ασθενωμεν υμεις δε δυνατοι ητε τουτο δε και ευχομεθα την υμων καταρτισιν
2 Corinthians 13:9 For we are glad, when we are weak, and ye are strong: and this also we wish, even your perfection.
2 Corinthians 13:10 δια τουτο ταυτα απων γραφω ινα παρων μη αποτομως χρησωμαι κατα την εξουσιαν ην εδωκεν μοι ο κυριος εις οικοδομην και ουκ εις καθαιρεσιν
2 Corinthians 13:10 Therefore I write these things being absent, lest being present I should use sharpness, according to the power which the Lord hath given me to edification, and not to destruction.
2 Corinthians 13:11 λοιπον αδελφοι χαιρετε καταρτιζεσθε παρακαλεισθε το αυτο φρονειτε ειρηνευετε και ο θεος της αγαπης και ειρηνης εσται μεθ υμων
2 Corinthians 13:11 Finally, brethren, farewell. Be perfect, be of good comfort, be of one mind, live in peace; and the God of love and peace shall be with you.
2 Corinthians 13:12 ασπασασθε αλληλους εν αγιω φιληματι
2 Corinthians 13:12 Greet one another with an holy kiss.
2 Corinthians 13:13 ασπαζονται υμας οι αγιοι παντες
2 Corinthians 13:13 All the saints salute you.
2 Corinthians 13:14 η χαρις του κυριου ιησου χριστου και η αγαπη του θεου και η κοινωνια του αγιου πνευματος μετα παντων υμων αμην [προς κορινθιους δευτερα εγραφη απο φιλιππων της μακεδονιας δια τιτου και λουκα]
2 Corinthians 13:14 The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God, and the communion of the Holy Ghost, be with you all. Amen.
Galatians 1:1 παυλος αποστολος ουκ απ ανθρωπων ουδε δι ανθρωπου αλλα δια ιησου χριστου και θεου πατρος του εγειραντος αυτον εκ νεκρων
Galatians 1:1 Paul, an apostle, (not of men, neither by man, but by Jesus Christ, and God the Father, who raised him from the dead;)
Galatians 1:2 και οι συν εμοι παντες αδελφοι ταις εκκλησιαις της γαλατιας
Galatians 1:2 And all the brethren which are with me, unto the churches of Galatia:
Galatians 1:3 χαρις υμιν και ειρηνη απο θεου πατρος και κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου
Galatians 1:3 Grace be to you and peace from God the Father, and from our Lord Jesus Christ,
Galatians 1:4 του δοντος εαυτον υπερ των αμαρτιων ημων οπως εξεληται ημας εκ του ενεστωτος αιωνος πονηρου κατα το θελημα του θεου και πατρος ημων
Galatians 1:4 Who gave himself for our sins, that he might deliver us from this present evil world, according to the will of God and our Father:
Galatians 1:5 ω η δοξα εις τους αιωνας των αιωνων αμην
Galatians 1:5 To whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen.
Galatians 1:6 θαυμαζω οτι ουτως ταχεως μετατιθεσθε απο του καλεσαντος υμας εν χαριτι χριστου εις ετερον ευαγγελιον
Galatians 1:6 I marvel that ye are so soon removed from him that called you into the grace of Christ unto another gospel:
Galatians 1:7 ο ουκ εστιν αλλο ει μη τινες εισιν οι ταρασσοντες υμας και θελοντες μεταστρεψαι το ευαγγελιον του χριστου
Galatians 1:7 Which is not another; but there be some that trouble you, and would pervert the gospel of Christ.
Galatians 1:8 αλλα και εαν ημεις η αγγελος εξ ουρανου ευαγγελιζηται υμιν παρ ο ευηγγελισαμεθα υμιν αναθεμα εστω
Galatians 1:8 But though we, or an angel from heaven, preach any other gospel unto you than that which we have preached unto you, let him be accursed.
Galatians 1:9 ως προειρηκαμεν και αρτι παλιν λεγω ει τις υμας ευαγγελιζεται παρ ο παρελαβετε αναθεμα εστω
Galatians 1:9 As we said before, so say I now again, if any man preach any other gospel unto you than that ye have received, let him be accursed.
Galatians 1:10 αρτι γαρ ανθρωπους πειθω η τον θεον η ζητω ανθρωποις αρεσκειν ει γαρ ετι ανθρωποις ηρεσκον χριστου δουλος ουκ αν ημην
Galatians 1:10 For do I now persuade men, or God? or do I seek to please men?  for if I yet pleased men, I should not be the servant of Christ.
Galatians 1:11 γνωριζω δε υμιν αδελφοι το ευαγγελιον το ευαγγελισθεν υπ εμου οτι ουκ εστιν κατα ανθρωπον
Galatians 1:11 But I certify you, brethren, that the gospel which was preached of me is not after man.
Galatians 1:12 ουδε γαρ εγω παρα ανθρωπου παρελαβον αυτο ουτε εδιδαχθην αλλα δι αποκαλυψεως ιησου χριστου
Galatians 1:12 For I neither received it of man, neither was I taught it, but by the revelation of Jesus Christ.
Galatians 1:13 ηκουσατε γαρ την εμην αναστροφην ποτε εν τω ιουδαισμω οτι καθ υπερβολην εδιωκον την εκκλησιαν του θεου και επορθουν αυτην
Galatians 1:13 For ye have heard of my conversation in time past in the Jews' religion, how that beyond measure I persecuted the church of God, and wasted it:
Galatians 1:14 και προεκοπτον εν τω ιουδαισμω υπερ πολλους συνηλικιωτας εν τω γενει μου περισσοτερως ζηλωτης υπαρχων των πατρικων μου παραδοσεων
Galatians 1:14 And profited in the Jews' religion above many my equals in mine own nation, being more exceedingly zealous of the traditions of my fathers.
Galatians 1:15 οτε δε ευδοκησεν ο θεος ο αφορισας με εκ κοιλιας μητρος μου και καλεσας δια της χαριτος αυτου
Galatians 1:15 But when it pleased God, who separated me from my mother's womb, and called me by his grace,
Galatians 1:16 αποκαλυψαι τον υιον αυτου εν εμοι ινα ευαγγελιζωμαι αυτον εν τοις εθνεσιν ευθεως ου προσανεθεμην σαρκι και αιματι
Galatians 1:16 To reveal his Son in me, that I might preach him among the heathen; immediately I conferred not with flesh and blood:
Galatians 1:17 ουδε ανηλθον εις ιεροσολυμα προς τους προ εμου αποστολους αλλ απηλθον εις αραβιαν και παλιν υπεστρεψα εις δαμασκον
Galatians 1:17 Neither went I up to Jerusalem to them which were apostles before me; but I went into Arabia, and returned again unto Damascus.
Galatians 1:18 επειτα μετα ετη τρια ανηλθον εις ιεροσολυμα ιστορησαι πετρον και επεμεινα προς αυτον ημερας δεκαπεντε
Galatians 1:18 Then after three years I went up to Jerusalem to see Peter, and abode with him fifteen days.
Galatians 1:19 ετερον δε των αποστολων ουκ ειδον ει μη ιακωβον τον αδελφον του κυριου
Galatians 1:19 But other of the apostles saw I none, save James the Lord's brother.
Galatians 1:20 α δε γραφω υμιν ιδου ενωπιον του θεου οτι ου ψευδομαι
Galatians 1:20 Now the things which I write unto you, behold, before God, I lie not.
Galatians 1:21 επειτα ηλθον εις τα κλιματα της συριας και της κιλικιας
Galatians 1:21 Afterwards I came into the regions of Syria and Cilicia;
Galatians 1:22 ημην δε αγνοουμενος τω προσωπω ταις εκκλησιαις της ιουδαιας ταις εν χριστω
Galatians 1:22 And was unknown by face unto the churches of Judaea which were in Christ:
Galatians 1:23 μονον δε ακουοντες ησαν οτι ο διωκων ημας ποτε νυν ευαγγελιζεται την πιστιν ην ποτε επορθει
Galatians 1:23 But they had heard only, That he which persecuted us in times past now preacheth the faith which once he destroyed.
Galatians 1:24 και εδοξαζον εν εμοι τον θεον
Galatians 1:24 And they glorified God in me.
Galatians 2:1 επειτα δια δεκατεσσαρων ετων παλιν ανεβην εις ιεροσολυμα μετα βαρναβα συμπαραλαβων και τιτον
Galatians 2:1 Then fourteen years after I went up again to Jerusalem with Barnabas, and took Titus with me also.
Galatians 2:2 ανεβην δε κατα αποκαλυψιν και ανεθεμην αυτοις το ευαγγελιον ο κηρυσσω εν τοις εθνεσιν κατ ιδιαν δε τοις δοκουσιν μηπως εις κενον τρεχω η εδραμον
Galatians 2:2 And I went up by revelation, and communicated unto them that gospel which I preach among the Gentiles, but privately to them which were of reputation, lest by any means I should run, or had run, in vain.
Galatians 2:3 αλλ ουδε τιτος ο συν εμοι ελλην ων ηναγκασθη περιτμηθηναι
Galatians 2:3 But neither Titus, who was with me, being a Greek, was compelled to be circumcised:
Galatians 2:4 δια δε τους παρεισακτους ψευδαδελφους οιτινες παρεισηλθον κατασκοπησαι την ελευθεριαν ημων ην εχομεν εν χριστω ιησου ινα ημας καταδουλωσωνται
Galatians 2:4 And that because of false brethren unawares brought in, who came in privily to spy out our liberty which we have in Christ Jesus, that they might bring us into bondage:
Galatians 2:5 οις ουδε προς ωραν ειξαμεν τη υποταγη ινα η αληθεια του ευαγγελιου διαμεινη προς υμας
Galatians 2:5 To whom we gave place by subjection, no, not for an hour; that the truth of the gospel might continue with you.
Galatians 2:6 απο δε των δοκουντων ειναι τι οποιοι ποτε ησαν ουδεν μοι διαφερει προσωπον θεος ανθρωπου ου λαμβανει εμοι γαρ οι δοκουντες ουδεν προσανεθεντο
Galatians 2:6 But of these who seemed to be somewhat, (whatsoever they were, it maketh no matter to me: God accepteth no man's person:) for they who seemed to be somewhat in conference added nothing to me:
Galatians 2:7 αλλα τουναντιον ιδοντες οτι πεπιστευμαι το ευαγγελιον της ακροβυστιας καθως πετρος της περιτομης
Galatians 2:7 But contrariwise, when they saw that the gospel of the uncircumcision was committed unto me, as the gospel of the circumcision was unto Peter;
Galatians 2:8 ο γαρ ενεργησας πετρω εις αποστολην της περιτομης ενηργησεν και εμοι εις τα εθνη
Galatians 2:8 (For he that wrought effectually in Peter to the apostleship of the circumcision, the same was mighty in me toward the Gentiles:)
Galatians 2:9 και γνοντες την χαριν την δοθεισαν μοι ιακωβος και κηφας και ιωαννης οι δοκουντες στυλοι ειναι δεξιας εδωκαν εμοι και βαρναβα κοινωνιας ινα ημεις εις τα εθνη αυτοι δε εις την περιτομην
Galatians 2:9 And when James, Cephas, and John, who seemed to be pillars, perceived the grace that was given unto me, they gave to me and Barnabas the right hands of fellowship; that we should go unto the heathen, and they unto the circumcision.
Galatians 2:10 μονον των πτωχων ινα μνημονευωμεν ο και εσπουδασα αυτο τουτο ποιησαι
Galatians 2:10 Only they would that we should remember the poor; the same which I also was forward to do.
Galatians 2:11 οτε δε ηλθεν πετρος εις αντιοχειαν κατα προσωπον αυτω αντεστην οτι κατεγνωσμενος ην
Galatians 2:11 But when Peter was come to Antioch, I withstood him to the face, because he was to be blamed.
Galatians 2:12 προ του γαρ ελθειν τινας απο ιακωβου μετα των εθνων συνησθιεν οτε δε ηλθον υπεστελλεν και αφωριζεν εαυτον φοβουμενος τους εκ περιτομης
Galatians 2:12 For before that certain came from James, he did eat with the Gentiles: but when they were come, he withdrew and separated himself, fearing them which were of the circumcision.
Galatians 2:13 και συνυπεκριθησαν αυτω και οι λοιποι ιουδαιοι ωστε και βαρναβας συναπηχθη αυτων τη υποκρισει
Galatians 2:13 And the other Jews dissembled likewise with him; insomuch that Barnabas also was carried away with their dissimulation.
Galatians 2:14 αλλ οτε ειδον οτι ουκ ορθοποδουσιν προς την αληθειαν του ευαγγελιου ειπον τω πετρω εμπροσθεν παντων ει συ ιουδαιος υπαρχων εθνικως ζης και ουκ ιουδαικως τι τα εθνη αναγκαζεις ιουδαιζειν
Galatians 2:14 But when I saw that they walked not uprightly according to the truth of the gospel, I said unto Peter before them all, If thou, being a Jew, livest after the manner of Gentiles, and not as do the Jews, why compellest thou the Gentiles to live as do the Jews?
Galatians 2:15 ημεις φυσει ιουδαιοι και ουκ εξ εθνων αμαρτωλοι
Galatians 2:15 We who are Jews by nature, and not sinners of the Gentiles,
Galatians 2:16 ειδοτες οτι ου δικαιουται ανθρωπος εξ εργων νομου εαν μη δια πιστεως ιησου χριστου και ημεις εις χριστον ιησουν επιστευσαμεν ινα δικαιωθωμεν εκ πιστεως χριστου και ουκ εξ εργων νομου διοτι ου δικαιωθησεται εξ εργων νομου πασα σαρξ
Galatians 2:16 Knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law, but by the faith of Jesus Christ, even we have believed in Jesus Christ, that we might be justified by the faith of Christ, and not by the works of the law: for by the works of the law shall no flesh be justified.
Galatians 2:17 ει δε ζητουντες δικαιωθηναι εν χριστω ευρεθημεν και αυτοι αμαρτωλοι αρα χριστος αμαρτιας διακονος μη γενοιτο
Galatians 2:17 But if, while we seek to be justified by Christ, we ourselves also are found sinners, is therefore Christ the minister of sin? God forbid.
Galatians 2:18 ει γαρ α κατελυσα ταυτα παλιν οικοδομω παραβατην εμαυτον συνιστημι
Galatians 2:18 For if I build again the things which I destroyed, I make myself a transgressor.
Galatians 2:19 εγω γαρ δια νομου νομω απεθανον ινα θεω ζησω
Galatians 2:19 For I through the law am dead to the law, that I might live unto God.
Galatians 2:20 χριστω συνεσταυρωμαι ζω δε ουκετι εγω ζη δε εν εμοι χριστος ο δε νυν ζω εν σαρκι εν πιστει ζω τη του υιου του θεου του αγαπησαντος με και παραδοντος εαυτον υπερ εμου
Galatians 2:20 I am crucified with Christ: neverthless I live; yet not I, but Christ liveth in me: and the life which I now live in the flesh I live by the faith of the Son of God, who loved me, and gave himself for me.
Galatians 2:21 ουκ αθετω την χαριν του θεου ει γαρ δια νομου δικαιοσυνη αρα χριστος δωρεαν απεθανεν
Galatians 2:21 I do not frustrate the grace of God: for if righteousness come by the law, then Christ is dead in vain.
Galatians 3:1 ω ανοητοι γαλαται τις υμας εβασκανεν τη αληθεια μη πειθεσθαι οις κατ οφθαλμους ιησους χριστος προεγραφη εν υμιν εσταυρωμενος
Galatians 3:1 O foolish Galatians, who hath bewitched you, that ye should not obey the truth, before whose eyes Jesus Christ hath been evidently set forth, crucified among you?
Galatians 3:2 τουτο μονον θελω μαθειν αφ υμων εξ εργων νομου το πνευμα ελαβετε η εξ ακοης πιστεως
Galatians 3:2 This only would I learn of you, Received ye the Spirit by the works of the law, or by the hearing of faith?
Galatians 3:3 ουτως ανοητοι εστε εναρξαμενοι πνευματι νυν σαρκι επιτελεισθε
Galatians 3:3 Are ye so foolish? having begun in the Spirit, are ye now made perfect by the flesh?
Galatians 3:4 τοσαυτα επαθετε εικη ειγε και εικη
Galatians 3:4 Have ye suffered so many things in vain? if it be yet in vain.
Galatians 3:5 ο ουν επιχορηγων υμιν το πνευμα και ενεργων δυναμεις εν υμιν εξ εργων νομου η εξ ακοης πιστεως
Galatians 3:5 He therefore that ministereth to you the Spirit, and worketh miracles among you, doeth he it by the works of the law, or by the hearing of faith?
Galatians 3:6 καθως αβρααμ επιστευσεν τω θεω και ελογισθη αυτω εις δικαιοσυνην
Galatians 3:6 Even as Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him for righteousness.
Galatians 3:7 γινωσκετε αρα οτι οι εκ πιστεως ουτοι εισιν υιοι αβρααμ
Galatians 3:7 Know ye therefore that they which are of faith, the same are the children of Abraham.
Galatians 3:8 προιδουσα δε η γραφη οτι εκ πιστεως δικαιοι τα εθνη ο θεος προευηγγελισατο τω αβρααμ οτι ενευλογηθησονται εν σοι παντα τα εθνη
Galatians 3:8 And the scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the heathen through faith, preached before the gospel unto Abraham, saying, In thee shall all nations be blessed.
Galatians 3:9 ωστε οι εκ πιστεως ευλογουνται συν τω πιστω αβρααμ
Galatians 3:9 So then they which be of faith are blessed with faithful Abraham.
Galatians 3:10 οσοι γαρ εξ εργων νομου εισιν υπο καταραν εισιν γεγραπται γαρ επικαταρατος πας ος ουκ εμμενει εν πασιν τοις γεγραμμενοις εν τω βιβλιω του νομου του ποιησαι αυτα
Galatians 3:10 For as many as are of the works of the law are under the curse: for it is written, Cursed is every one that continueth not in all things which are written in the book of the law to do them.
Galatians 3:11 οτι δε εν νομω ουδεις δικαιουται παρα τω θεω δηλον οτι ο δικαιος εκ πιστεως ζησεται
Galatians 3:11 But that no man is justified by the law in the sight of God, it is evident: for, The just shall live by faith.
Galatians 3:12 ο δε νομος ουκ εστιν εκ πιστεως αλλ ο ποιησας αυτα ανθρωπος ζησεται εν αυτοις
Galatians 3:12 And the law is not of faith: but, The man that doeth them shall live in them.
Galatians 3:13 χριστος ημας εξηγορασεν εκ της καταρας του νομου γενομενος υπερ ημων καταρα γεγραπται γαρ επικαταρατος πας ο κρεμαμενος επι ξυλου
Galatians 3:13 Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us: for it is written, Cursed is every one that hangeth on a tree:
Galatians 3:14 ινα εις τα εθνη η ευλογια του αβρααμ γενηται εν χριστω ιησου ινα την επαγγελιαν του πνευματος λαβωμεν δια της πιστεως
Galatians 3:14 That the blessing of Abraham might come on the Gentiles through Jesus Christ; that we might receive the promise of the Spirit through faith.
Galatians 3:15 αδελφοι κατα ανθρωπον λεγω ομως ανθρωπου κεκυρωμενην διαθηκην ουδεις αθετει η επιδιατασσεται
Galatians 3:15 Brethren, I speak after the manner of men; Though it be but a man's covenant, yet if it be confirmed, no man disannulleth, or addeth thereto.
Galatians 3:16 τω δε αβρααμ ερρηθησαν αι επαγγελιαι και τω σπερματι αυτου ου λεγει και τοις σπερμασιν ως επι πολλων αλλ ως εφ ενος και τω σπερματι σου ος εστιν χριστος
Galatians 3:16 Now to Abraham and his seed were the promises made. He saith not, And to seeds, as of many; but as of one, And to thy seed, which is Christ.
Galatians 3:17 τουτο δε λεγω διαθηκην προκεκυρωμενην υπο του θεου εις χριστον ο μετα ετη τετρακοσια και τριακοντα γεγονως νομος ουκ ακυροι εις το καταργησαι την επαγγελιαν
Galatians 3:17 And this I say, that the covenant, that was confirmed before of God in Christ, the law, which was four hundred and thirty years after, cannot disannul, that it should make the promise of none effect.
Galatians 3:18 ει γαρ εκ νομου η κληρονομια ουκετι εξ επαγγελιας τω δε αβρααμ δι επαγγελιας κεχαρισται ο θεος
Galatians 3:18 For if the inheritance be of the law, it is no more of promise: but God gave it to Abraham by promise.
Galatians 3:19 τι ουν ο νομος των παραβασεων χαριν προσετεθη αχρις ου ελθη το σπερμα ω επηγγελται διαταγεις δι αγγελων εν χειρι μεσιτου
Galatians 3:19 Wherefore then serveth the law? It was added because of transgressions, till the seed should come to whom the promise was made; and it was ordained by angels in the hand of a mediator.
Galatians 3:20 ο δε μεσιτης ενος ουκ εστιν ο δε θεος εις εστιν
Galatians 3:20 Now a mediator is not a mediator of one, but God is one.
Galatians 3:21 ο ουν νομος κατα των επαγγελιων του θεου μη γενοιτο ει γαρ εδοθη νομος ο δυναμενος ζωοποιησαι οντως αν εκ νομου ην η δικαιοσυνη
Galatians 3:21 Is the law then against the promises of God? God forbid: for if there had been a law given which could have given life, verily righteousness should have been by the law.
Galatians 3:22 αλλα συνεκλεισεν η γραφη τα παντα υπο αμαρτιαν ινα η επαγγελια εκ πιστεως ιησου χριστου δοθη τοις πιστευουσιν
Galatians 3:22 But the scripture hath concluded all under sin, that the promise by faith of Jesus Christ might be given to them that believe.
Galatians 3:23 προ του δε ελθειν την πιστιν υπο νομον εφρουρουμεθα συγκεκλεισμενοι εις την μελλουσαν πιστιν αποκαλυφθηναι
Galatians 3:23 But before faith came, we were kept under the law, shut up unto the faith which should afterwards be revealed.
Galatians 3:24 ωστε ο νομος παιδαγωγος ημων γεγονεν εις χριστον ινα εκ πιστεως δικαιωθωμεν
Galatians 3:24 Wherefore the law was our schoolmaster to bring us unto Christ, that we might be justified by faith.
Galatians 3:25 ελθουσης δε της πιστεως ουκετι υπο παιδαγωγον εσμεν
Galatians 3:25 But after that faith is come, we are no longer under a schoolmaster.
Galatians 3:26 παντες γαρ υιοι θεου εστε δια της πιστεως εν χριστω ιησου
Galatians 3:26 For ye are all the children of God by faith in Christ Jesus.
Galatians 3:27 οσοι γαρ εις χριστον εβαπτισθητε χριστον ενεδυσασθε
Galatians 3:27 For as many of you as have been baptized into Christ have put on Christ.
Galatians 3:28 ουκ ενι ιουδαιος ουδε ελλην ουκ ενι δουλος ουδε ελευθερος ουκ ενι αρσεν και θηλυ παντες γαρ υμεις εις εστε εν χριστω ιησου
Galatians 3:28 There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither bond nor free, there is neither male nor female: for ye are all one in Christ Jesus.
Galatians 3:29 ει δε υμεις χριστου αρα του αβρααμ σπερμα εστε και κατ επαγγελιαν κληρονομοι
Galatians 3:29 And if ye be Christ's, then are ye Abraham's seed, and heirs according to the promise.
Galatians 4:1 λεγω δε εφ οσον χρονον ο κληρονομος νηπιος εστιν ουδεν διαφερει δουλου κυριος παντων ων
Galatians 4:1 Now I say, That the heir, as long as he is a child, differeth nothing from a servant, though he be lord of all;
Galatians 4:2 αλλα υπο επιτροπους εστιν και οικονομους αχρι της προθεσμιας του πατρος
Galatians 4:2 But is under tutors and governors until the time appointed of the father.
Galatians 4:3 ουτως και ημεις οτε ημεν νηπιοι υπο τα στοιχεια του κοσμου ημεν δεδουλωμενοι
Galatians 4:3 Even so we, when we were children, were in bondage under the elements of the world:
Galatians 4:4 οτε δε ηλθεν το πληρωμα του χρονου εξαπεστειλεν ο θεος τον υιον αυτου γενομενον εκ γυναικος γενομενον υπο νομον
Galatians 4:4 But when the fulness of the time was come, God sent forth his Son, made of a woman, made under the law,
Galatians 4:5 ινα τους υπο νομον εξαγοραση ινα την υιοθεσιαν απολαβωμεν
Galatians 4:5 To redeem them that were under the law, that we might receive the adoption of sons.
Galatians 4:6 οτι δε εστε υιοι εξαπεστειλεν ο θεος το πνευμα του υιου αυτου εις τας καρδιας υμων κραζον αββα ο πατηρ
Galatians 4:6 And because ye are sons, God hath sent forth the Spirit of his Son into your hearts, crying, Abba, Father.
Galatians 4:7 ωστε ουκετι ει δουλος αλλ υιος ει δε υιος και κληρονομος θεου δια χριστου
Galatians 4:7 Wherefore thou art no more a servant, but a son; and if a son, then an heir of God through Christ.
Galatians 4:8 αλλα τοτε μεν ουκ ειδοτες θεον εδουλευσατε τοις μη φυσει ουσιν θεοις
Galatians 4:8 Howbeit then, when ye knew not God, ye did service unto them which by nature are no gods.
Galatians 4:9 νυν δε γνοντες θεον μαλλον δε γνωσθεντες υπο θεου πως επιστρεφετε παλιν επι τα ασθενη και πτωχα στοιχεια οις παλιν ανωθεν δουλευειν θελετε
Galatians 4:9 But now, after that ye have known God, or rather are known of God, how turn ye again to the weak and beggarly elements, whereunto ye desire again to be in bondage?
Galatians 4:10 ημερας παρατηρεισθε και μηνας και καιρους και ενιαυτους
Galatians 4:10 Ye observe days, and months, and times, and years.
Galatians 4:11 φοβουμαι υμας μηπως εικη κεκοπιακα εις υμας
Galatians 4:11 I am afraid of you, lest I have bestowed upon you labour in vain.
Galatians 4:12 γινεσθε ως εγω οτι καγω ως υμεις αδελφοι δεομαι υμων ουδεν με ηδικησατε
Galatians 4:12 Brethren, I beseech you, be as I am; for I am as ye are: ye have not injured me at all.
Galatians 4:13 οιδατε δε οτι δι ασθενειαν της σαρκος ευηγγελισαμην υμιν το προτερον
Galatians 4:13 Ye know how through infirmity of the flesh I preached the gospel unto you at the first.
Galatians 4:14 και τον πειρασμον μου τον εν τη σαρκι μου ουκ εξουθενησατε ουδε εξεπτυσατε αλλ ως αγγελον θεου εδεξασθε με ως χριστον ιησουν
Galatians 4:14 And my temptation which was in my flesh ye despised not, nor rejected; but received me as an angel of God, even as Christ Jesus.
Galatians 4:15 τις ουν ην ο μακαρισμος υμων μαρτυρω γαρ υμιν οτι ει δυνατον τους οφθαλμους υμων εξορυξαντες αν εδωκατε μοι
Galatians 4:15 Where is then the blessedness ye spake of? for I bear you record, that, if it had been possible, ye would have plucked out your own eyes, and have given them to me.
Galatians 4:16 ωστε εχθρος υμων γεγονα αληθευων υμιν
Galatians 4:16 Am I therefore become your enemy, because I tell you the truth?
Galatians 4:17 ζηλουσιν υμας ου καλως αλλα εκκλεισαι υμας θελουσιν ινα αυτους ζηλουτε
Galatians 4:17 They zealously affect you, but not well; yea, they would exclude you, that ye might affect them.
Galatians 4:18 καλον δε το ζηλουσθαι εν καλω παντοτε και μη μονον εν τω παρειναι με προς υμας
Galatians 4:18 But it is good to be zealously affected always in a good thing, and not only when I am present with you.
Galatians 4:19 τεκνια μου ους παλιν ωδινω αχρις ου μορφωθη χριστος εν υμιν
Galatians 4:19 My little children, of whom I travail in birth again until Christ be formed in you,
Galatians 4:20 ηθελον δε παρειναι προς υμας αρτι και αλλαξαι την φωνην μου οτι απορουμαι εν υμιν
Galatians 4:20 I desire to be present with you now, and to change my voice; for I stand in doubt of you.
Galatians 4:21 λεγετε μοι οι υπο νομον θελοντες ειναι τον νομον ουκ ακουετε
Galatians 4:21 Tell me, ye that desire to be under the law, do ye not hear the law?
Galatians 4:22 γεγραπται γαρ οτι αβρααμ δυο υιους εσχεν ενα εκ της παιδισκης και ενα εκ της ελευθερας
Galatians 4:22 For it is written, that Abraham had two sons, the one by a bondmaid, the other by a freewoman.
Galatians 4:23 αλλ ο μεν εκ της παιδισκης κατα σαρκα γεγεννηται ο δε εκ της ελευθερας δια της επαγγελιας
Galatians 4:23 But he who was of the bondwoman was born after the flesh; but he of the freewoman was by promise.
Galatians 4:24 ατινα εστιν αλληγορουμενα αυται γαρ εισιν αι δυο διαθηκαι μια μεν απο ορους σινα εις δουλειαν γεννωσα ητις εστιν αγαρ
Galatians 4:24 Which things are an allegory: for these are the two covenants; the one from the mount Sinai, which gendereth to bondage, which is Agar.
Galatians 4:25 το γαρ αγαρ σινα ορος εστιν εν τη αραβια συστοιχει δε τη νυν ιερουσαλημ δουλευει δε μετα των τεκνων αυτης
Galatians 4:25 For this Agar is mount Sinai in Arabia, and answereth to Jerusalem which now is, and is in bondage with her children.
Galatians 4:26 η δε ανω ιερουσαλημ ελευθερα εστιν ητις εστιν μητηρ παντων ημων
Galatians 4:26 But Jerusalem which is above is free, which is the mother of us all.
Galatians 4:27 γεγραπται γαρ ευφρανθητι στειρα η ου τικτουσα ρηξον και βοησον η ουκ ωδινουσα οτι πολλα τα τεκνα της ερημου μαλλον η της εχουσης τον ανδρα
Galatians 4:27 For it is written, Rejoice, thou barren that bearest not; break forth and cry, thou that travailest not: for the desolate hath many more children than she which hath an husband.
Galatians 4:28 ημεις δε αδελφοι κατα ισαακ επαγγελιας τεκνα εσμεν
Galatians 4:28 Now we, brethren, as Isaac was, are the children of promise.
Galatians 4:29 αλλ ωσπερ τοτε ο κατα σαρκα γεννηθεις εδιωκεν τον κατα πνευμα ουτως και νυν
Galatians 4:29 But as then he that was born after the flesh persecuted him that was born after the Spirit, even so it is now.
Galatians 4:30 αλλα τι λεγει η γραφη εκβαλε την παιδισκην και τον υιον αυτης ου γαρ μη κληρονομηση ο υιος της παιδισκης μετα του υιου της ελευθερας
Galatians 4:30 Nevertheless what saith the scripture? Cast out the bondwoman and her son: for the son of the bondwoman shall not be heir with the son of the freewoman.
Galatians 4:31 αρα αδελφοι ουκ εσμεν παιδισκης τεκνα αλλα της ελευθερας
Galatians 4:31 So then, brethren, we are not children of the bondwoman, but of the free.
Galatians 5:1 τη ελευθερια ουν η χριστος ημας ηλευθερωσεν στηκετε και μη παλιν ζυγω δουλειας ενεχεσθε
Galatians 5:1 Stand fast therefore in the liberty wherewith Christ hath made us free, and be not entangled again with the yoke of bondage.
Galatians 5:2 ιδε εγω παυλος λεγω υμιν οτι εαν περιτεμνησθε χριστος υμας ουδεν ωφελησει
Galatians 5:2 Behold, I Paul say unto you, that if ye be circumcised, Christ shall profit you nothing.
Galatians 5:3 μαρτυρομαι δε παλιν παντι ανθρωπω περιτεμνομενω οτι οφειλετης εστιν ολον τον νομον ποιησαι
Galatians 5:3 For I testify again to every man that is circumcised, that he is a debtor to do the whole law.
Galatians 5:4 κατηργηθητε απο του χριστου οιτινες εν νομω δικαιουσθε της χαριτος εξεπεσατε
Galatians 5:4 Christ is become of no effect unto you, whosoever of you are justified by the law; ye are fallen from grace.
Galatians 5:5 ημεις γαρ πνευματι εκ πιστεως ελπιδα δικαιοσυνης απεκδεχομεθα
Galatians 5:5 For we through the Spirit wait for the hope of righteousness by faith.
Galatians 5:6 εν γαρ χριστω ιησου ουτε περιτομη τι ισχυει ουτε ακροβυστια αλλα πιστις δι αγαπης ενεργουμενη
Galatians 5:6 For in Jesus Christ neither circumcision availeth any thing, nor uncircumcision; but faith which worketh by love.
Galatians 5:7 ετρεχετε καλως τις υμας ανεκοψεν τη αληθεια μη πειθεσθαι
Galatians 5:7 Ye did run well; who did hinder you that ye should not obey the truth?
Galatians 5:8 η πεισμονη ουκ εκ του καλουντος υμας
Galatians 5:8 This persuasion cometh not of him that calleth you.
Galatians 5:9 μικρα ζυμη ολον το φυραμα ζυμοι
Galatians 5:9 A little leaven leaveneth the whole lump.
Galatians 5:10 εγω πεποιθα εις υμας εν κυριω οτι ουδεν αλλο φρονησετε ο δε ταρασσων υμας βαστασει το κριμα οστις αν η
Galatians 5:10 I have confidence in you through the Lord, that ye will be none otherwise minded: but he that troubleth you shall bear his judgment, whosoever he be.
Galatians 5:11 εγω δε αδελφοι ει περιτομην ετι κηρυσσω τι ετι διωκομαι αρα κατηργηται το σκανδαλον του σταυρου
Galatians 5:11 And I, brethren, if I yet preach circumcision, why do I yet suffer persecution? then is the offence of the cross ceased.
Galatians 5:12 οφελον και αποκοψονται οι αναστατουντες υμας
Galatians 5:12 I would they were even cut off which trouble you.
Galatians 5:13 υμεις γαρ επ ελευθερια εκληθητε αδελφοι μονον μη την ελευθεριαν εις αφορμην τη σαρκι αλλα δια της αγαπης δουλευετε αλληλοις
Galatians 5:13 For, brethren, ye have been called unto liberty; only use not liberty for an occasion to the flesh, but by love serve one another.
Galatians 5:14 ο γαρ πας νομος εν ενι λογω πληρουται εν τω αγαπησεις τον πλησιον σου ως εαυτον
Galatians 5:14 For all the law is fulfilled in one word, even in this; Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.
Galatians 5:15 ει δε αλληλους δακνετε και κατεσθιετε βλεπετε μη υπο αλληλων αναλωθητε
Galatians 5:15 But if ye bite and devour one another, take heed that ye be not consumed one of another.
Galatians 5:16 λεγω δε πνευματι περιπατειτε και επιθυμιαν σαρκος ου μη τελεσητε
Galatians 5:16 This I say then, Walk in the Spirit, and ye shall not fulfil the lust of the flesh.
Galatians 5:17 η γαρ σαρξ επιθυμει κατα του πνευματος το δε πνευμα κατα της σαρκος ταυτα δε αντικειται αλληλοις ινα μη α αν θελητε ταυτα ποιητε
Galatians 5:17 For the flesh lusteth against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh: and these are contrary the one to the other: so that ye cannot do the things that ye would.
Galatians 5:18 ει δε πνευματι αγεσθε ουκ εστε υπο νομον
Galatians 5:18 But if ye be led of the Spirit, ye are not under the law.
Galatians 5:19 φανερα δε εστιν τα εργα της σαρκος ατινα εστιν μοιχεια πορνεια ακαθαρσια ασελγεια
Galatians 5:19 Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these; Adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness,
Galatians 5:20 ειδωλολατρεια φαρμακεια εχθραι ερεις ζηλοι θυμοι εριθειαι διχοστασιαι αιρεσεις
Galatians 5:20 Idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variance, emulations, wrath, strife, seditions, heresies,
Galatians 5:21 φθονοι φονοι μεθαι κωμοι και τα ομοια τουτοις α προλεγω υμιν καθως και προειπον οτι οι τα τοιαυτα πρασσοντες βασιλειαν θεου ου κληρονομησουσιν
Galatians 5:21 Envyings, murders, drunkenness, revellings, and such like: of the which I tell you before, as I have also told you in time past, that they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God.
Galatians 5:22 ο δε καρπος του πνευματος εστιν αγαπη χαρα ειρηνη μακροθυμια χρηστοτης αγαθωσυνη πιστις
Galatians 5:22 But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith,
Galatians 5:23 πραοτης εγκρατεια κατα των τοιουτων ουκ εστιν νομος
Galatians 5:23 Meekness, temperance: against such there is no law.
Galatians 5:24 οι δε του χριστου την σαρκα εσταυρωσαν συν τοις παθημασιν και ταις επιθυμιαις
Galatians 5:24 And they that are Christ's have crucified the flesh with the affections and lusts.
Galatians 5:25 ει ζωμεν πνευματι πνευματι και στοιχωμεν
Galatians 5:25 If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit.
Galatians 5:26 μη γινωμεθα κενοδοξοι αλληλους προκαλουμενοι αλληλοις φθονουντες
Galatians 5:26 Let us not be desirous of vain glory, provoking one another, envying one another.
Galatians 6:1 αδελφοι εαν και προληφθη ανθρωπος εν τινι παραπτωματι υμεις οι πνευματικοι καταρτιζετε τον τοιουτον εν πνευματι πραοτητος σκοπων σεαυτον μη και συ πειρασθης
Galatians 6:1 Brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fault, ye which are spiritual, restore such an one in the spirit of meekness; considering thyself, lest thou also be tempted.
Galatians 6:2 αλληλων τα βαρη βασταζετε και ουτως αναπληρωσατε τον νομον του χριστου
Galatians 6:2 Bear ye one another's burdens, and so fulfil the law of Christ.
Galatians 6:3 ει γαρ δοκει τις ειναι τι μηδεν ων εαυτον φρεναπατα
Galatians 6:3 For if a man think himself to be something, when he is nothing, he deceiveth himself.
Galatians 6:4 το δε εργον εαυτου δοκιμαζετω εκαστος και τοτε εις εαυτον μονον το καυχημα εξει και ουκ εις τον ετερον
Galatians 6:4 But let every man prove his own work, and then shall he have rejoicing in himself alone, and not in another.
Galatians 6:5 εκαστος γαρ το ιδιον φορτιον βαστασει
Galatians 6:5 For every man shall bear his own burden.
Galatians 6:6 κοινωνειτω δε ο κατηχουμενος τον λογον τω κατηχουντι εν πασιν αγαθοις
Galatians 6:6 Let him that is taught in the word communicate unto him that teacheth in all good things.
Galatians 6:7 μη πλανασθε θεος ου μυκτηριζεται ο γαρ εαν σπειρη ανθρωπος τουτο και θερισει
Galatians 6:7 Be not deceived; God is not mocked: for whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap.
Galatians 6:8 οτι ο σπειρων εις την σαρκα εαυτου εκ της σαρκος θερισει φθοραν ο δε σπειρων εις το πνευμα εκ του πνευματος θερισει ζωην αιωνιον
Galatians 6:8 For he that soweth to his flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption; but he that soweth to the Spirit shall of the Spirit reap life everlasting.
Galatians 6:9 το δε καλον ποιουντες μη εκκακωμεν καιρω γαρ ιδιω θερισομεν μη εκλυομενοι
Galatians 6:9 And let us not be weary in well doing: for in due season we shall reap, if we faint not.
Galatians 6:10 αρα ουν ως καιρον εχομεν εργαζωμεθα το αγαθον προς παντας μαλιστα δε προς τους οικειους της πιστεως
Galatians 6:10 As we have therefore opportunity, let us do good unto all men, especially unto them who are of the household of faith.
Galatians 6:11 ιδετε πηλικοις υμιν γραμμασιν εγραψα τη εμη χειρι
Galatians 6:11 Ye see how large a letter I have written unto you with mine own hand.
Galatians 6:12 οσοι θελουσιν ευπροσωπησαι εν σαρκι ουτοι αναγκαζουσιν υμας περιτεμνεσθαι μονον ινα μη τω σταυρω του χριστου διωκωνται
Galatians 6:12 As many as desire to make a fair shew in the flesh, they constrain you to be circumcised; only lest they should suffer persecution for the cross of Christ.
Galatians 6:13 ουδε γαρ οι περιτεμνομενοι αυτοι νομον φυλασσουσιν αλλα θελουσιν υμας περιτεμνεσθαι ινα εν τη υμετερα σαρκι καυχησωνται
Galatians 6:13 For neither they themselves who are circumcised keep the law; but desire to have you circumcised, that they may glory in your flesh.
Galatians 6:14 εμοι δε μη γενοιτο καυχασθαι ει μη εν τω σταυρω του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου δι ου εμοι κοσμος εσταυρωται καγω τω κοσμω
Galatians 6:14 But God forbid that I should glory, save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom the world is crucified unto me, and I unto the world.
Galatians 6:15 εν γαρ χριστω ιησου ουτε περιτομη τι ισχυει ουτε ακροβυστια αλλα καινη κτισις
Galatians 6:15 For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision availeth any thing, nor uncircumcision, but a new creature.
Galatians 6:16 και οσοι τω κανονι τουτω στοιχησουσιν ειρηνη επ αυτους και ελεος και επι τον ισραηλ του θεου
Galatians 6:16 And as many as walk according to this rule, peace be on them, and mercy, and upon the Israel of God.
Galatians 6:17 του λοιπου κοπους μοι μηδεις παρεχετω εγω γαρ τα στιγματα του κυριου ιησου εν τω σωματι μου βασταζω
Galatians 6:17 From henceforth let no man trouble me: for I bear in my body the marks of the Lord Jesus.
Galatians 6:18 η χαρις του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου μετα του πνευματος υμων αδελφοι αμην [προς γαλατας εγραφη απο ρωμης]
Galatians 6:18 Brethren, the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen.
Ephesians 1:1 παυλος αποστολος ιησου χριστου δια θεληματος θεου τοις αγιοις τοις ουσιν εν εφεσω και πιστοις εν χριστω ιησου
Ephesians 1:1 Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, to the saints which are at Ephesus, and to the faithful in Christ Jesus:
Ephesians 1:2 χαρις υμιν και ειρηνη απο θεου πατρος ημων και κυριου ιησου χριστου
Ephesians 1:2 Grace be to you, and peace, from God our Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ.
Ephesians 1:3 ευλογητος ο θεος και πατηρ του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου ο ευλογησας ημας εν παση ευλογια πνευματικη εν τοις επουρανιοις χριστω
Ephesians 1:3 Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who hath blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ:
Ephesians 1:4 καθως εξελεξατο ημας εν αυτω προ καταβολης κοσμου ειναι ημας αγιους και αμωμους κατενωπιον αυτου εν αγαπη
Ephesians 1:4 According as he hath chosen us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him in love:
Ephesians 1:5 προορισας ημας εις υιοθεσιαν δια ιησου χριστου εις αυτον κατα την ευδοκιαν του θεληματος αυτου
Ephesians 1:5 Having predestinated us unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ to himself, according to the good pleasure of his will,
Ephesians 1:6 εις επαινον δοξης της χαριτος αυτου εν η εχαριτωσεν ημας εν τω ηγαπημενω
Ephesians 1:6 To the praise of the glory of his grace, wherein he hath made us accepted in the beloved.
Ephesians 1:7 εν ω εχομεν την απολυτρωσιν δια του αιματος αυτου την αφεσιν των παραπτωματων κατα τον πλουτον της χαριτος αυτου
Ephesians 1:7 In whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, according to the riches of his grace;
Ephesians 1:8 ης επερισσευσεν εις ημας εν παση σοφια και φρονησει
Ephesians 1:8 Wherein he hath abounded toward us in all wisdom and prudence;
Ephesians 1:9 γνωρισας ημιν το μυστηριον του θεληματος αυτου κατα την ευδοκιαν αυτου ην προεθετο εν αυτω
Ephesians 1:9 Having made known unto us the mystery of his will, according to his good pleasure which he hath purposed in himself:
Ephesians 1:10 εις οικονομιαν του πληρωματος των καιρων ανακεφαλαιωσασθαι τα παντα εν τω χριστω τα τε εν τοις ουρανοις και τα επι της γης
Ephesians 1:10 That in the dispensation of the fulness of times he might gather together in one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven, and which are on earth; even in him:
Ephesians 1:11 εν αυτω εν ω και εκληρωθημεν προορισθεντες κατα προθεσιν του τα παντα ενεργουντος κατα την βουλην του θεληματος αυτου
Ephesians 1:11 In whom also we have obtained an inheritance, being predestinated according to the purpose of him who worketh all things after the counsel of his own will:
Ephesians 1:12 εις το ειναι ημας εις επαινον της δοξης αυτου τους προηλπικοτας εν τω χριστω
Ephesians 1:12 That we should be to the praise of his glory, who first trusted in Christ.
Ephesians 1:13 εν ω και υμεις ακουσαντες τον λογον της αληθειας το ευαγγελιον της σωτηριας υμων εν ω και πιστευσαντες εσφραγισθητε τω πνευματι της επαγγελιας τω αγιω
Ephesians 1:13 In whom ye also trusted, after that ye heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation: in whom also after that ye believed, ye were sealed with that holy Spirit of promise,
Ephesians 1:14 ος εστιν αρραβων της κληρονομιας ημων εις απολυτρωσιν της περιποιησεως εις επαινον της δοξης αυτου
Ephesians 1:14 Which is the earnest of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased possession, unto the praise of his glory.
Ephesians 1:15 δια τουτο καγω ακουσας την καθ υμας πιστιν εν τω κυριω ιησου και την αγαπην την εις παντας τους αγιους
Ephesians 1:15 Wherefore I also, after I heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus, and love unto all the saints,
Ephesians 1:16 ου παυομαι ευχαριστων υπερ υμων μνειαν υμων ποιουμενος επι των προσευχων μου
Ephesians 1:16 Cease not to give thanks for you, making mention of you in my prayers;
Ephesians 1:17 ινα ο θεος του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου ο πατηρ της δοξης δωη υμιν πνευμα σοφιας και αποκαλυψεως εν επιγνωσει αυτου
Ephesians 1:17 That the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give unto you the spirit of wisdom and revelation in the knowledge of him:
Ephesians 1:18 πεφωτισμενους τους οφθαλμους της διανοιας υμων εις το ειδεναι υμας τις εστιν η ελπις της κλησεως αυτου και τις ο πλουτος της δοξης της κληρονομιας αυτου εν τοις αγιοις
Ephesians 1:18 The eyes of your understanding being enlightened; that ye may know what is the hope of his calling, and what the riches of the glory of his inheritance in the saints,
Ephesians 1:19 και τι το υπερβαλλον μεγεθος της δυναμεως αυτου εις ημας τους πιστευοντας κατα την ενεργειαν του κρατους της ισχυος αυτου
Ephesians 1:19 And what is the exceeding greatness of his power to us-ward who believe, according to the working of his mighty power,
Ephesians 1:20 ην ενηργησεν εν τω χριστω εγειρας αυτον εκ νεκρων και εκαθισεν εν δεξια αυτου εν τοις επουρανιοις
Ephesians 1:20 Which he wrought in Christ, when he raised him from the dead, and set him at his own right hand in the heavenly places,
Ephesians 1:21 υπερανω πασης αρχης και εξουσιας και δυναμεως και κυριοτητος και παντος ονοματος ονομαζομενου ου μονον εν τω αιωνι τουτω αλλα και εν τω μελλοντι
Ephesians 1:21 Far above all principality, and power, and might, and dominion, and every name that is named, not only in this world, but also in that which is to come:
Ephesians 1:22 και παντα υπεταξεν υπο τους ποδας αυτου και αυτον εδωκεν κεφαλην υπερ παντα τη εκκλησια
Ephesians 1:22 And hath put all things under his feet, and gave him to be the head over all things to the church,
Ephesians 1:23 ητις εστιν το σωμα αυτου το πληρωμα του παντα εν πασιν πληρουμενου
Ephesians 1:23 Which is his body, the fulness of him that filleth all in all.
Ephesians 2:1 και υμας οντας νεκρους τοις παραπτωμασιν και ταις αμαρτιαις
Ephesians 2:1 And you hath he quickened, who were dead in trespasses and sins;
Ephesians 2:2 εν αις ποτε περιεπατησατε κατα τον αιωνα του κοσμου τουτου κατα τον αρχοντα της εξουσιας του αερος του πνευματος του νυν ενεργουντος εν τοις υιοις της απειθειας
Ephesians 2:2 Wherein in time past ye walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience:
Ephesians 2:3 εν οις και ημεις παντες ανεστραφημεν ποτε εν ταις επιθυμιαις της σαρκος ημων ποιουντες τα θεληματα της σαρκος και των διανοιων και ημεν τεκνα φυσει οργης ως και οι λοιποι
Ephesians 2:3 Among whom also we all had our conversation in times past in the lusts of our flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind; and were by nature the children of wrath, even as others.
Ephesians 2:4 ο δε θεος πλουσιος ων εν ελεει δια την πολλην αγαπην αυτου ην ηγαπησεν ημας
Ephesians 2:4 But God, who is rich in mercy, for his great love wherewith he loved us,
Ephesians 2:5 και οντας ημας νεκρους τοις παραπτωμασιν συνεζωοποιησεν τω χριστω χαριτι εστε σεσωσμενοι
Ephesians 2:5 Even when we were dead in sins, hath quickened us together with Christ, (by grace ye are saved;)
Ephesians 2:6 και συνηγειρεν και συνεκαθισεν εν τοις επουρανιοις εν χριστω ιησου
Ephesians 2:6 And hath raised us up together, and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus:
Ephesians 2:7 ινα ενδειξηται εν τοις αιωσιν τοις επερχομενοις τον υπερβαλλοντα πλουτον της χαριτος αυτου εν χρηστοτητι εφ ημας εν χριστω ιησου
Ephesians 2:7 That in the ages to come he might shew the exceeding riches of his grace in his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus.
Ephesians 2:8 τη γαρ χαριτι εστε σεσωσμενοι δια της πιστεως και τουτο ουκ εξ υμων θεου το δωρον
Ephesians 2:8 For by grace are ye saved through faith; and that not of yourselves: it is the gift of God:
Ephesians 2:9 ουκ εξ εργων ινα μη τις καυχησηται
Ephesians 2:9 Not of works, lest any man should boast.
Ephesians 2:10 αυτου γαρ εσμεν ποιημα κτισθεντες εν χριστω ιησου επι εργοις αγαθοις οις προητοιμασεν ο θεος ινα εν αυτοις περιπατησωμεν
Ephesians 2:10 For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus unto good works, which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them.
Ephesians 2:11 διο μνημονευετε οτι υμεις ποτε τα εθνη εν σαρκι οι λεγομενοι ακροβυστια υπο της λεγομενης περιτομης εν σαρκι χειροποιητου
Ephesians 2:11 Wherefore remember, that ye being in time past Gentiles in the flesh, who are called Uncircumcision by that which is called the Circumcision in the flesh made by hands;
Ephesians 2:12 οτι ητε εν τω καιρω εκεινω χωρις χριστου απηλλοτριωμενοι της πολιτειας του ισραηλ και ξενοι των διαθηκων της επαγγελιας ελπιδα μη εχοντες και αθεοι εν τω κοσμω
Ephesians 2:12 That at that time ye were without Christ, being aliens from the commonwealth of Israel, and strangers from the covenants of promise, having no hope, and without God in the world:
Ephesians 2:13 νυνι δε εν χριστω ιησου υμεις οι ποτε οντες μακραν εγγυς εγενηθητε εν τω αιματι του χριστου
Ephesians 2:13 But now in Christ Jesus ye who sometimes were far off are made nigh by the blood of Christ.
Ephesians 2:14 αυτος γαρ εστιν η ειρηνη ημων ο ποιησας τα αμφοτερα εν και το μεσοτοιχον του φραγμου λυσας
Ephesians 2:14 For he is our peace, who hath made both one, and hath broken down the middle wall of partition between us;
Ephesians 2:15 την εχθραν εν τη σαρκι αυτου τον νομον των εντολων εν δογμασιν καταργησας ινα τους δυο κτιση εν εαυτω εις ενα καινον ανθρωπον ποιων ειρηνην
Ephesians 2:15 Having abolished in his flesh the enmity, even the law of commandments contained in ordinances; for to make in himself of twain one new man, so making peace;
Ephesians 2:16 και αποκαταλλαξη τους αμφοτερους εν ενι σωματι τω θεω δια του σταυρου αποκτεινας την εχθραν εν αυτω
Ephesians 2:16 And that he might reconcile both unto God in one body by the cross, having slain the enmity thereby:
Ephesians 2:17 και ελθων ευηγγελισατο ειρηνην υμιν τοις μακραν και τοις εγγυς
Ephesians 2:17 And came and preached peace to you which were afar off, and to them that were nigh.
Ephesians 2:18 οτι δι αυτου εχομεν την προσαγωγην οι αμφοτεροι εν ενι πνευματι προς τον πατερα
Ephesians 2:18 For through him we both have access by one Spirit unto the Father.
Ephesians 2:19 αρα ουν ουκετι εστε ξενοι και παροικοι αλλα συμπολιται των αγιων και οικειοι του θεου
Ephesians 2:19 Now therefore ye are no more strangers and foreigners, but fellowcitizens with the saints, and of the household of God;
Ephesians 2:20 εποικοδομηθεντες επι τω θεμελιω των αποστολων και προφητων οντος ακρογωνιαιου αυτου ιησου χριστου
Ephesians 2:20 And are built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the chief corner stone;
Ephesians 2:21 εν ω πασα η οικοδομη συναρμολογουμενη αυξει εις ναον αγιον εν κυριω
Ephesians 2:21 In whom all the building fitly framed together groweth unto an holy temple in the Lord:
Ephesians 2:22 εν ω και υμεις συνοικοδομεισθε εις κατοικητηριον του θεου εν πνευματι
Ephesians 2:22 In whom ye also are builded together for an habitation of God through the Spirit.
Ephesians 3:1 τουτου χαριν εγω παυλος ο δεσμιος του χριστου ιησου υπερ υμων των εθνων
Ephesians 3:1 For this cause I Paul, the prisoner of Jesus Christ for you Gentiles,
Ephesians 3:2 ειγε ηκουσατε την οικονομιαν της χαριτος του θεου της δοθεισης μοι εις υμας
Ephesians 3:2 If ye have heard of the dispensation of the grace of God which is given me to you-ward:
Ephesians 3:3 οτι κατα αποκαλυψιν εγνωρισεν μοι το μυστηριον καθως προεγραψα εν ολιγω
Ephesians 3:3 How that by revelation he made known unto me the mystery; (as I wrote afore in few words,
Ephesians 3:4 προς ο δυνασθε αναγινωσκοντες νοησαι την συνεσιν μου εν τω μυστηριω του χριστου
Ephesians 3:4 Whereby, when ye read, ye may understand my knowledge in the mystery of Christ)
Ephesians 3:5 ο εν ετεραις γενεαις ουκ εγνωρισθη τοις υιοις των ανθρωπων ως νυν απεκαλυφθη τοις αγιοις αποστολοις αυτου και προφηταις εν πνευματι
Ephesians 3:5 Which in other ages was not made known unto the sons of men, as it is now revealed unto his holy apostles and prophets by the Spirit;
Ephesians 3:6 ειναι τα εθνη συγκληρονομα και συσσωμα και συμμετοχα της επαγγελιας αυτου εν τω χριστω δια του ευαγγελιου
Ephesians 3:6 That the Gentiles should be fellowheirs, and of the same body, and partakers of his promise in Christ by the gospel:
Ephesians 3:7 ου εγενομην διακονος κατα την δωρεαν της χαριτος του θεου την δοθεισαν μοι κατα την ενεργειαν της δυναμεως αυτου
Ephesians 3:7 Whereof I was made a minister, according to the gift of the grace of God given unto me by the effectual working of his power.
Ephesians 3:8 εμοι τω ελαχιστοτερω παντων των αγιων εδοθη η χαρις αυτη εν τοις εθνεσιν ευαγγελισασθαι τον ανεξιχνιαστον πλουτον του χριστου
Ephesians 3:8 Unto me, who am less than the least of all saints, is this grace given, that I should preach among the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ;
Ephesians 3:9 και φωτισαι παντας τις η κοινωνια του μυστηριου του αποκεκρυμμενου απο των αιωνων εν τω θεω τω τα παντα κτισαντι δια ιησου χριστου
Ephesians 3:9 And to make all men see what is the fellowship of the mystery, which from the beginning of the world hath been hid in God, who created all things by Jesus Christ:
Ephesians 3:10 ινα γνωρισθη νυν ταις αρχαις και ταις εξουσιαις εν τοις επουρανιοις δια της εκκλησιας η πολυποικιλος σοφια του θεου
Ephesians 3:10 To the intent that now unto the principalities and powers in heavenly places might be known by the church the manifold wisdom of God,
Ephesians 3:11 κατα προθεσιν των αιωνων ην εποιησεν εν χριστω ιησου τω κυριω ημων
Ephesians 3:11 According to the eternal purpose which he purposed in Christ Jesus our Lord:
Ephesians 3:12 εν ω εχομεν την παρρησιαν και την προσαγωγην εν πεποιθησει δια της πιστεως αυτου
Ephesians 3:12 In whom we have boldness and access with confidence by the faith of him.
Ephesians 3:13 διο αιτουμαι μη εκκακειν εν ταις θλιψεσιν μου υπερ υμων ητις εστιν δοξα υμων
Ephesians 3:13 Wherefore I desire that ye faint not at my tribulations for you, which is your glory.
Ephesians 3:14 τουτου χαριν καμπτω τα γονατα μου προς τον πατερα του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου
Ephesians 3:14 For this cause I bow my knees unto the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ,
Ephesians 3:15 εξ ου πασα πατρια εν ουρανοις και επι γης ονομαζεται
Ephesians 3:15 Of whom the whole family in heaven and earth is named,
Ephesians 3:16 ινα δωη υμιν κατα τον πλουτον της δοξης αυτου δυναμει κραταιωθηναι δια του πνευματος αυτου εις τον εσω ανθρωπον
Ephesians 3:16 That he would grant you, according to the riches of his glory, to be strengthened with might by his Spirit in the inner man;
Ephesians 3:17 κατοικησαι τον χριστον δια της πιστεως εν ταις καρδιαις υμων
Ephesians 3:17 That Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith; that ye, being rooted and grounded in love,
Ephesians 3:18 εν αγαπη ερριζωμενοι και τεθεμελιωμενοι ινα εξισχυσητε καταλαβεσθαι συν πασιν τοις αγιοις τι το πλατος και μηκος και βαθος και υψος
Ephesians 3:18 May be able to comprehend with all saints what is the breadth, and length, and depth, and height;
Ephesians 3:19 γνωναι τε την υπερβαλλουσαν της γνωσεως αγαπην του χριστου ινα πληρωθητε εις παν το πληρωμα του θεου
Ephesians 3:19 And to know the love of Christ, which passeth knowledge, that ye might be filled with all the fulness of God.
Ephesians 3:20 τω δε δυναμενω υπερ παντα ποιησαι υπερ εκ περισσου ων αιτουμεθα η νοουμεν κατα την δυναμιν την ενεργουμενην εν ημιν
Ephesians 3:20 Now unto him that is able to do exceeding abundantly above all that we ask or think, according to the power that worketh in us,
Ephesians 3:21 αυτω η δοξα εν τη εκκλησια εν χριστω ιησου εις πασας τας γενεας του αιωνος των αιωνων αμην
Ephesians 3:21 Unto him be glory in the church by Christ Jesus throughout all ages, world without end. Amen.
Ephesians 4:1 παρακαλω ουν υμας εγω ο δεσμιος εν κυριω αξιως περιπατησαι της κλησεως ης εκληθητε
Ephesians 4:1 I therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you that ye walk worthy of the vocation wherewith ye are called,
Ephesians 4:2 μετα πασης ταπεινοφροσυνης και πραοτητος μετα μακροθυμιας ανεχομενοι αλληλων εν αγαπη
Ephesians 4:2 With all lowliness and meekness, with longsuffering, forbearing one another in love;
Ephesians 4:3 σπουδαζοντες τηρειν την ενοτητα του πνευματος εν τω συνδεσμω της ειρηνης
Ephesians 4:3 Endeavouring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace.
Ephesians 4:4 εν σωμα και εν πνευμα καθως και εκληθητε εν μια ελπιδι της κλησεως υμων
Ephesians 4:4 There is one body, and one Spirit, even as ye are called in one hope of your calling;
Ephesians 4:5 εις κυριος μια πιστις εν βαπτισμα
Ephesians 4:5 One Lord, one faith, one baptism,
Ephesians 4:6 εις θεος και πατηρ παντων ο επι παντων και δια παντων και εν πασιν υμιν
Ephesians 4:6 One God and Father of all, who is above all, and through all, and in you all.
Ephesians 4:7 ενι δε εκαστω ημων εδοθη η χαρις κατα το μετρον της δωρεας του χριστου
Ephesians 4:7 But unto every one of us is given grace according to the measure of the gift of Christ.
Ephesians 4:8 διο λεγει αναβας εις υψος ηχμαλωτευσεν αιχμαλωσιαν και εδωκεν δοματα τοις ανθρωποις
Ephesians 4:8 Wherefore he saith, When he ascended up on high, he led captivity captive, and gave gifts unto men.
Ephesians 4:9 το δε ανεβη τι εστιν ει μη οτι και κατεβη πρωτον εις τα κατωτερα μερη της γης
Ephesians 4:9 (Now that he ascended, what is it but that he also descended first into the lower parts of the earth?
Ephesians 4:10 ο καταβας αυτος εστιν και ο αναβας υπερανω παντων των ουρανων ινα πληρωση τα παντα
Ephesians 4:10 He that descended is the same also that ascended up far above all heavens, that he might fill all things.)
Ephesians 4:11 και αυτος εδωκεν τους μεν αποστολους τους δε προφητας τους δε ευαγγελιστας τους δε ποιμενας και διδασκαλους
Ephesians 4:11 And he gave some, apostles; and some, prophets; and some, evangelists; and some, pastors and teachers;
Ephesians 4:12 προς τον καταρτισμον των αγιων εις εργον διακονιας εις οικοδομην του σωματος του χριστου
Ephesians 4:12 For the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ:
Ephesians 4:13 μεχρι καταντησωμεν οι παντες εις την ενοτητα της πιστεως και της επιγνωσεως του υιου του θεου εις ανδρα τελειον εις μετρον ηλικιας του πληρωματος του χριστου
Ephesians 4:13 Till we all come in the unity of the faith, and of the knowledge of the Son of God, unto a perfect man, unto the measure of the stature of the fulness of Christ:
Ephesians 4:14 ινα μηκετι ωμεν νηπιοι κλυδωνιζομενοι και περιφερομενοι παντι ανεμω της διδασκαλιας εν τη κυβεια των ανθρωπων εν πανουργια προς την μεθοδειαν της πλανης
Ephesians 4:14 That we henceforth be no more children, tossed to and fro, and carried about with every wind of doctrine, by the sleight of men, and cunning craftiness, whereby they lie in wait to deceive;
Ephesians 4:15 αληθευοντες δε εν αγαπη αυξησωμεν εις αυτον τα παντα ος εστιν η κεφαλη ο χριστος
Ephesians 4:15 But speaking the truth in love, may grow up into him in all things, which is the head, even Christ:
Ephesians 4:16 εξ ου παν το σωμα συναρμολογουμενον και συμβιβαζομενον δια πασης αφης της επιχορηγιας κατ ενεργειαν εν μετρω ενος εκαστου μερους την αυξησιν του σωματος ποιειται εις οικοδομην εαυτου εν αγαπη
Ephesians 4:16 From whom the whole body fitly joined together and compacted by that which every joint supplieth, according to the effectual working in the measure of every part, maketh increase of the body unto the edifying of itself in love.
Ephesians 4:17 τουτο ουν λεγω και μαρτυρομαι εν κυριω μηκετι υμας περιπατειν καθως και τα λοιπα εθνη περιπατει εν ματαιοτητι του νοος αυτων
Ephesians 4:17 This I say therefore, and testify in the Lord, that ye henceforth walk not as other Gentiles walk, in the vanity of their mind,
Ephesians 4:18 εσκοτισμενοι τη διανοια οντες απηλλοτριωμενοι της ζωης του θεου δια την αγνοιαν την ουσαν εν αυτοις δια την πωρωσιν της καρδιας αυτων
Ephesians 4:18 Having the understanding darkened, being alienated from the life of God through the ignorance that is in them, because of the blindness of their heart:
Ephesians 4:19 οιτινες απηλγηκοτες εαυτους παρεδωκαν τη ασελγεια εις εργασιαν ακαθαρσιας πασης εν πλεονεξια
Ephesians 4:19 Who being past feeling have given themselves over unto lasciviousness, to work all uncleanness with greediness.
Ephesians 4:20 υμεις δε ουχ ουτως εμαθετε τον χριστον
Ephesians 4:20 But ye have not so learned Christ;
Ephesians 4:21 ειγε αυτον ηκουσατε και εν αυτω εδιδαχθητε καθως εστιν αληθεια εν τω ιησου
Ephesians 4:21 If so be that ye have heard him, and have been taught by him, as the truth is in Jesus:
Ephesians 4:22 αποθεσθαι υμας κατα την προτεραν αναστροφην τον παλαιον ανθρωπον τον φθειρομενον κατα τας επιθυμιας της απατης
Ephesians 4:22 That ye put off concerning the former conversation the old man, which is corrupt according to the deceitful lusts;
Ephesians 4:23 ανανεουσθαι δε τω πνευματι του νοος υμων
Ephesians 4:23 And be renewed in the spirit of your mind;
Ephesians 4:24 και ενδυσασθαι τον καινον ανθρωπον τον κατα θεον κτισθεντα εν δικαιοσυνη και οσιοτητι της αληθειας
Ephesians 4:24 And that ye put on the new man, which after God is created in righteousness and true holiness.
Ephesians 4:25 διο αποθεμενοι το ψευδος λαλειτε αληθειαν εκαστος μετα του πλησιον αυτου οτι εσμεν αλληλων μελη
Ephesians 4:25 Wherefore putting away lying, speak every man truth with his neighbour: for we are members one of another.
Ephesians 4:26 οργιζεσθε και μη αμαρτανετε ο ηλιος μη επιδυετω επι τω παροργισμω υμων
Ephesians 4:26 Be ye angry, and sin not: let not the sun go down upon your wrath:
Ephesians 4:27 μητε διδοτε τοπον τω διαβολω
Ephesians 4:27 Neither give place to the devil.
Ephesians 4:28 ο κλεπτων μηκετι κλεπτετω μαλλον δε κοπιατω εργαζομενος το αγαθον ταις χερσιν ινα εχη μεταδιδοναι τω χρειαν εχοντι
Ephesians 4:28 Let him that stole steal no more: but rather let him labour, working with his hands the thing which is good, that he may have to give to him that needeth.
Ephesians 4:29 πας λογος σαπρος εκ του στοματος υμων μη εκπορευεσθω αλλ ει τις αγαθος προς οικοδομην της χρειας ινα δω χαριν τοις ακουουσιν
Ephesians 4:29 Let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth, but that which is good to the use of edifying, that it may minister grace unto the hearers.
Ephesians 4:30 και μη λυπειτε το πνευμα το αγιον του θεου εν ω εσφραγισθητε εις ημεραν απολυτρωσεως
Ephesians 4:30 And grieve not the holy Spirit of God, whereby ye are sealed unto the day of redemption.
Ephesians 4:31 πασα πικρια και θυμος και οργη και κραυγη και βλασφημια αρθητω αφ υμων συν παση κακια
Ephesians 4:31 Let all bitterness, and wrath, and anger, and clamour, and evil speaking, be put away from you, with all malice:
Ephesians 4:32 γινεσθε δε εις αλληλους χρηστοι ευσπλαγχνοι χαριζομενοι εαυτοις καθως και ο θεος εν χριστω εχαρισατο υμιν
Ephesians 4:32 And be ye kind one to another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you.
Ephesians 5:1 γινεσθε ουν μιμηται του θεου ως τεκνα αγαπητα
Ephesians 5:1 Be ye therefore followers of God, as dear children;
Ephesians 5:2 και περιπατειτε εν αγαπη καθως και ο χριστος ηγαπησεν ημας και παρεδωκεν εαυτον υπερ ημων προσφοραν και θυσιαν τω θεω εις οσμην ευωδιας
Ephesians 5:2 And walk in love, as Christ also hath loved us, and hath given himself for us an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweetsmelling savour.
Ephesians 5:3 πορνεια δε και πασα ακαθαρσια η πλεονεξια μηδε ονομαζεσθω εν υμιν καθως πρεπει αγιοις
Ephesians 5:3 But fornication, and all uncleanness, or covetousness, let it not be once named among you, as becometh saints;
Ephesians 5:4 και αισχροτης και μωρολογια η ευτραπελια τα ουκ ανηκοντα αλλα μαλλον ευχαριστια
Ephesians 5:4 Neither filthiness, nor foolish talking, nor jesting, which are not convenient: but rather giving of thanks.
Ephesians 5:5 τουτο γαρ εστε γινωσκοντες οτι πας πορνος η ακαθαρτος η πλεονεκτης ος εστιν ειδωλολατρης ουκ εχει κληρονομιαν εν τη βασιλεια του χριστου και θεου
Ephesians 5:5 For this ye know, that no whoremonger, nor unclean person, nor covetous man, who is an idolater, hath any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God.
Ephesians 5:6 μηδεις υμας απατατω κενοις λογοις δια ταυτα γαρ ερχεται η οργη του θεου επι τους υιους της απειθειας
Ephesians 5:6 Let no man deceive you with vain words: for because of these things cometh the wrath of God upon the children of disobedience.
Ephesians 5:7 μη ουν γινεσθε συμμετοχοι αυτων
Ephesians 5:7 Be not ye therefore partakers with them.
Ephesians 5:8 ητε γαρ ποτε σκοτος νυν δε φως εν κυριω ως τεκνα φωτος περιπατειτε
Ephesians 5:8 For ye were sometimes darkness, but now are ye light in the Lord: walk as children of light:
Ephesians 5:9 ο γαρ καρπος του πνευματος εν παση αγαθωσυνη και δικαιοσυνη και αληθεια
Ephesians 5:9 (For the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness and righteousness and truth;)
Ephesians 5:10 δοκιμαζοντες τι εστιν ευαρεστον τω κυριω
Ephesians 5:10 Proving what is acceptable unto the Lord.
Ephesians 5:11 και μη συγκοινωνειτε τοις εργοις τοις ακαρποις του σκοτους μαλλον δε και ελεγχετε
Ephesians 5:11 And have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather reprove them.
Ephesians 5:12 τα γαρ κρυφη γινομενα υπ αυτων αισχρον εστιν και λεγειν
Ephesians 5:12 For it is a shame even to speak of those things which are done of them in secret.
Ephesians 5:13 τα δε παντα ελεγχομενα υπο του φωτος φανερουται παν γαρ το φανερουμενον φως εστιν
Ephesians 5:13 But all things that are reproved are made manifest by the light: for whatsoever doth make manifest is light.
Ephesians 5:14 διο λεγει εγειραι ο καθευδων και αναστα εκ των νεκρων και επιφαυσει σοι ο χριστος
Ephesians 5:14 Wherefore he saith, Awake thou that sleepest, and arise from the dead, and Christ shall give thee light.
Ephesians 5:15 βλεπετε ουν πως ακριβως περιπατειτε μη ως ασοφοι αλλ ως σοφοι
Ephesians 5:15 See then that ye walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise,
Ephesians 5:16 εξαγοραζομενοι τον καιρον οτι αι ημεραι πονηραι εισιν
Ephesians 5:16 Redeeming the time, because the days are evil.
Ephesians 5:17 δια τουτο μη γινεσθε αφρονες αλλα συνιεντες τι το θελημα του κυριου
Ephesians 5:17 Wherefore be ye not unwise, but understanding what the will of the Lord is.
Ephesians 5:18 και μη μεθυσκεσθε οινω εν ω εστιν ασωτια αλλα πληρουσθε εν πνευματι
Ephesians 5:18 And be not drunk with wine, wherein is excess; but be filled with the Spirit;
Ephesians 5:19 λαλουντες εαυτοις ψαλμοις και υμνοις και ωδαις πνευματικαις αδοντες και ψαλλοντες εν τη καρδια υμων τω κυριω
Ephesians 5:19 Speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord;
Ephesians 5:20 ευχαριστουντες παντοτε υπερ παντων εν ονοματι του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου τω θεω και πατρι
Ephesians 5:20 Giving thanks always for all things unto God and the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ;
Ephesians 5:21 υποτασσομενοι αλληλοις εν φοβω θεου
Ephesians 5:21 Submitting yourselves one to another in the fear of God.
Ephesians 5:22 αι γυναικες τοις ιδιοις ανδρασιν υποτασσεσθε ως τω κυριω
Ephesians 5:22 Wives, submit yourselves unto your own husbands, as unto the Lord.
Ephesians 5:23 οτι ο ανηρ εστιν κεφαλη της γυναικος ως και ο χριστος κεφαλη της εκκλησιας και αυτος εστιν σωτηρ του σωματος
Ephesians 5:23 For the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church: and he is the saviour of the body.
Ephesians 5:24 αλλ ωσπερ η εκκλησια υποτασσεται τω χριστω ουτως και αι γυναικες τοις ιδιοις ανδρασιν εν παντι
Ephesians 5:24 Therefore as the church is subject unto Christ, so let the wives be to their own husbands in every thing.
Ephesians 5:25 οι ανδρες αγαπατε τας γυναικας εαυτων καθως και ο χριστος ηγαπησεν την εκκλησιαν και εαυτον παρεδωκεν υπερ αυτης
Ephesians 5:25 Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the church, and gave himself for it;
Ephesians 5:26 ινα αυτην αγιαση καθαρισας τω λουτρω του υδατος εν ρηματι
Ephesians 5:26 That he might sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of water by the word,
Ephesians 5:27 ινα παραστηση αυτην εαυτω ενδοξον την εκκλησιαν μη εχουσαν σπιλον η ρυτιδα η τι των τοιουτων αλλ ινα η αγια και αμωμος
Ephesians 5:27 That he might present it to himself a glorious church, not having spot, or wrinkle, or any such thing; but that it should be holy and without blemish.
Ephesians 5:28 ουτως οφειλουσιν οι ανδρες αγαπαν τας εαυτων γυναικας ως τα εαυτων σωματα ο αγαπων την εαυτου γυναικα εαυτον αγαπα
Ephesians 5:28 So ought men to love their wives as their own bodies. He that loveth his wife loveth himself.
Ephesians 5:29 ουδεις γαρ ποτε την εαυτου σαρκα εμισησεν αλλ εκτρεφει και θαλπει αυτην καθως και ο κυριος την εκκλησιαν
Ephesians 5:29 For no man ever yet hated his own flesh; but nourisheth and cherisheth it, even as the Lord the church:
Ephesians 5:30 οτι μελη εσμεν του σωματος αυτου εκ της σαρκος αυτου και εκ των οστεων αυτου
Ephesians 5:30 For we are members of his body, of his flesh, and of his bones.
Ephesians 5:31 αντι τουτου καταλειψει ανθρωπος τον πατερα αυτου και την μητερα και προσκολληθησεται προς την γυναικα αυτου και εσονται οι δυο εις σαρκα μιαν
Ephesians 5:31 For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother, and shall be joined unto his wife, and they two shall be one flesh.
Ephesians 5:32 το μυστηριον τουτο μεγα εστιν εγω δε λεγω εις χριστον και εις την εκκλησιαν
Ephesians 5:32 This is a great mystery: but I speak concerning Christ and the church.
Ephesians 5:33 πλην και υμεις οι καθ ενα εκαστος την εαυτου γυναικα ουτως αγαπατω ως εαυτον η δε γυνη ινα φοβηται τον ανδρα
Ephesians 5:33 Nevertheless let every one of you in particular so love his wife even as himself; and the wife see that she reverence her husband.
Ephesians 6:1 τα τεκνα υπακουετε τοις γονευσιν υμων εν κυριω τουτο γαρ εστιν δικαιον
Ephesians 6:1 Children, obey your parents in the Lord: for this is right.
Ephesians 6:2 τιμα τον πατερα σου και την μητερα ητις εστιν εντολη πρωτη εν επαγγελια
Ephesians 6:2 Honour thy father and mother; which is the first commandment with promise;
Ephesians 6:3 ινα ευ σοι γενηται και εση μακροχρονιος επι της γης
Ephesians 6:3 That it may be well with thee, and thou mayest live long on the earth.
Ephesians 6:4 και οι πατερες μη παροργιζετε τα τεκνα υμων αλλ εκτρεφετε αυτα εν παιδεια και νουθεσια κυριου
Ephesians 6:4 And, ye fathers, provoke not your children to wrath: but bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord.
Ephesians 6:5 οι δουλοι υπακουετε τοις κυριοις κατα σαρκα μετα φοβου και τρομου εν απλοτητι της καρδιας υμων ως τω χριστω
Ephesians 6:5 Servants, be obedient to them that are your masters according to the flesh, with fear and trembling, in singleness of your heart, as unto Christ;
Ephesians 6:6 μη κατ οφθαλμοδουλειαν ως ανθρωπαρεσκοι αλλ ως δουλοι του χριστου ποιουντες το θελημα του θεου εκ ψυχης
Ephesians 6:6 Not with eyeservice, as menpleasers; but as the servants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart;
Ephesians 6:7 μετ ευνοιας δουλευοντες τω κυριω και ουκ ανθρωποις
Ephesians 6:7 With good will doing service, as to the Lord, and not to men:
Ephesians 6:8 ειδοτες οτι ο εαν τι εκαστος ποιηση αγαθον τουτο κομιειται παρα του κυριου ειτε δουλος ειτε ελευθερος
Ephesians 6:8 Knowing that whatsoever good thing any man doeth, the same shall he receive of the Lord, whether he be bond or free.
Ephesians 6:9 και οι κυριοι τα αυτα ποιειτε προς αυτους ανιεντες την απειλην ειδοτες οτι και υμων αυτων ο κυριος εστιν εν ουρανοις και προσωποληψια ουκ εστιν παρ αυτω
Ephesians 6:9 And, ye masters, do the same things unto them, forbearing threatening: knowing that your Master also is in heaven; neither is there respect of persons with him.
Ephesians 6:10 το λοιπον αδελφοι μου ενδυναμουσθε εν κυριω και εν τω κρατει της ισχυος αυτου
Ephesians 6:10 Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord, and in the power of his might.
Ephesians 6:11 ενδυσασθε την πανοπλιαν του θεου προς το δυνασθαι υμας στηναι προς τας μεθοδειας του διαβολου
Ephesians 6:11 Put on the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil.
Ephesians 6:12 οτι ουκ εστιν ημιν η παλη προς αιμα και σαρκα αλλα προς τας αρχας προς τας εξουσιας προς τους κοσμοκρατορας του σκοτους του αιωνος τουτου προς τα πνευματικα της πονηριας εν τοις επουρανιοις
Ephesians 6:12 For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places.
Ephesians 6:13 δια τουτο αναλαβετε την πανοπλιαν του θεου ινα δυνηθητε αντιστηναι εν τη ημερα τη πονηρα και απαντα κατεργασαμενοι στηναι
Ephesians 6:13 Wherefore take unto you the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand.
Ephesians 6:14 στητε ουν περιζωσαμενοι την οσφυν υμων εν αληθεια και ενδυσαμενοι τον θωρακα της δικαιοσυνης
Ephesians 6:14 Stand therefore, having your loins girt about with truth, and having on the breastplate of righteousness;
Ephesians 6:15 και υποδησαμενοι τους ποδας εν ετοιμασια του ευαγγελιου της ειρηνης
Ephesians 6:15 And your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace;
Ephesians 6:16 επι πασιν αναλαβοντες τον θυρεον της πιστεως εν ω δυνησεσθε παντα τα βελη του πονηρου τα πεπυρωμενα σβεσαι
Ephesians 6:16 Above all, taking the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked.
Ephesians 6:17 και την περικεφαλαιαν του σωτηριου δεξασθε και την μαχαιραν του πνευματος ο εστιν ρημα θεου
Ephesians 6:17 And take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God:
Ephesians 6:18 δια πασης προσευχης και δεησεως προσευχομενοι εν παντι καιρω εν πνευματι και εις αυτο τουτο αγρυπνουντες εν παση προσκαρτερησει και δεησει περι παντων των αγιων
Ephesians 6:18 Praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, and watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints;
Ephesians 6:19 και υπερ εμου ινα μοι δοθειη λογος εν ανοιξει του στοματος μου εν παρρησια γνωρισαι το μυστηριον του ευαγγελιου
Ephesians 6:19 And for me, that utterance may be given unto me, that I may open my mouth boldly, to make known the mystery of the gospel,
Ephesians 6:20 υπερ ου πρεσβευω εν αλυσει ινα εν αυτω παρρησιασωμαι ως δει με λαλησαι
Ephesians 6:20 For which I am an ambassador in bonds: that therein I may speak boldly, as I ought to speak.
Ephesians 6:21 ινα δε ειδητε και υμεις τα κατ εμε τι πρασσω παντα υμιν γνωρισει τυχικος ο αγαπητος αδελφος και πιστος διακονος εν κυριω
Ephesians 6:21 But that ye also may know my affairs, and how I do, Tychicus, a beloved brother and faithful minister in the Lord, shall make known to you all things:
Ephesians 6:22 ον επεμψα προς υμας εις αυτο τουτο ινα γνωτε τα περι ημων και παρακαλεση τας καρδιας υμων
Ephesians 6:22 Whom I have sent unto you for the same purpose, that ye might know our affairs, and that he might comfort your hearts.
Ephesians 6:23 ειρηνη τοις αδελφοις και αγαπη μετα πιστεως απο θεου πατρος και κυριου ιησου χριστου
Ephesians 6:23 Peace be to the brethren, and love with faith, from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Ephesians 6:24 η χαρις μετα παντων των αγαπωντων τον κυριον ημων ιησουν χριστον εν αφθαρσια αμην [προς εφεσιους εγραφη απο ρωμης δια τυχικου]
Ephesians 6:24 Grace be with all them that love our Lord Jesus Christ in sincerity. Amen.
Philippians 1:1 παυλος και τιμοθεος δουλοι ιησου χριστου πασιν τοις αγιοις εν χριστω ιησου τοις ουσιν εν φιλιπποις συν επισκοποις και διακονοις
Philippians 1:1 Paul and Timotheus, the servants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus which are at Philippi, with the bishops and deacons:
Philippians 1:2 χαρις υμιν και ειρηνη απο θεου πατρος ημων και κυριου ιησου χριστου
Philippians 1:2 Grace be unto you, and peace, from God our Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ.
Philippians 1:3 ευχαριστω τω θεω μου επι παση τη μνεια υμων
Philippians 1:3 I thank my God upon every remembrance of you,
Philippians 1:4 παντοτε εν παση δεησει μου υπερ παντων υμων μετα χαρας την δεησιν ποιουμενος
Philippians 1:4 Always in every prayer of mine for you all making request with joy,
Philippians 1:5 επι τη κοινωνια υμων εις το ευαγγελιον απο πρωτης ημερας αχρι του νυν
Philippians 1:5 For your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now;
Philippians 1:6 πεποιθως αυτο τουτο οτι ο εναρξαμενος εν υμιν εργον αγαθον επιτελεσει αχρις ημερας ιησου χριστου
Philippians 1:6 Being confident of this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ:
Philippians 1:7 καθως εστιν δικαιον εμοι τουτο φρονειν υπερ παντων υμων δια το εχειν με εν τη καρδια υμας εν τε τοις δεσμοις μου και τη απολογια και βεβαιωσει του ευαγγελιου συγκοινωνους μου της χαριτος παντας υμας οντας
Philippians 1:7 Even as it is meet for me to think this of you all, because I have you in my heart; inasmuch as both in my bonds, and in the defence and confirmation of the gospel, ye all are partakers of my grace.
Philippians 1:8 μαρτυς γαρ μου εστιν ο θεος ως επιποθω παντας υμας εν σπλαγχνοις ιησου χριστου
Philippians 1:8 For God is my record, how greatly I long after you all in the bowels of Jesus Christ.
Philippians 1:9 και τουτο προσευχομαι ινα η αγαπη υμων ετι μαλλον και μαλλον περισσευη εν επιγνωσει και παση αισθησει
Philippians 1:9 And this I pray, that your love may abound yet more and more in knowledge and in all judgment;
Philippians 1:10 εις το δοκιμαζειν υμας τα διαφεροντα ινα ητε ειλικρινεις και απροσκοποι εις ημεραν χριστου
Philippians 1:10 That ye may approve things that are excellent; that ye may be sincere and without offence till the day of Christ.
Philippians 1:11 πεπληρωμενοι καρπων δικαιοσυνης των δια ιησου χριστου εις δοξαν και επαινον θεου
Philippians 1:11 Being filled with the fruits of righteousness, which are by Jesus Christ, unto the glory and praise of God.
Philippians 1:12 γινωσκειν δε υμας βουλομαι αδελφοι οτι τα κατ εμε μαλλον εις προκοπην του ευαγγελιου εληλυθεν
Philippians 1:12 But I would ye should understand, brethren, that the things which happened unto me have fallen out rather unto the furtherance of the gospel;
Philippians 1:13 ωστε τους δεσμους μου φανερους εν χριστω γενεσθαι εν ολω τω πραιτωριω και τοις λοιποις πασιν
Philippians 1:13 So that my bonds in Christ are manifest in all the palace, and in all other places;
Philippians 1:14 και τους πλειονας των αδελφων εν κυριω πεποιθοτας τοις δεσμοις μου περισσοτερως τολμαν αφοβως τον λογον λαλειν
Philippians 1:14 And many of the brethren in the Lord, waxing confident by my bonds, are much more bold to speak the word without fear.
Philippians 1:15 τινες μεν και δια φθονον και εριν τινες δε και δι ευδοκιαν τον χριστον κηρυσσουσιν
Philippians 1:15 Some indeed preach Christ even of envy and strife; and some also of good will:
Philippians 1:16 οι μεν εξ εριθειας τον χριστον καταγγελλουσιν ουχ αγνως οιομενοι θλιψιν επιφερειν τοις δεσμοις μου
Philippians 1:16 The one preach Christ of contention, not sincerely, supposing to add affliction to my bonds:
Philippians 1:17 οι δε εξ αγαπης ειδοτες οτι εις απολογιαν του ευαγγελιου κειμαι
Philippians 1:17 But the other of love, knowing that I am set for the defence of the gospel.
Philippians 1:18 τι γαρ πλην παντι τροπω ειτε προφασει ειτε αληθεια χριστος καταγγελλεται και εν τουτω χαιρω αλλα και χαρησομαι
Philippians 1:18 What then? notwithstanding, every way, whether in pretence, or in truth, Christ is preached; and I therein do rejoice, yea, and will rejoice.
Philippians 1:19 οιδα γαρ οτι τουτο μοι αποβησεται εις σωτηριαν δια της υμων δεησεως και επιχορηγιας του πνευματος ιησου χριστου
Philippians 1:19 For I know that this shall turn to my salvation through your prayer, and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ,
Philippians 1:20 κατα την αποκαραδοκιαν και ελπιδα μου οτι εν ουδενι αισχυνθησομαι αλλ εν παση παρρησια ως παντοτε και νυν μεγαλυνθησεται χριστος εν τω σωματι μου ειτε δια ζωης ειτε δια θανατου
Philippians 1:20 According to my earnest expectation and my hope, that in nothing I shall be ashamed, but that with all boldness, as always, so now also Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether it be by life, or by death.
Philippians 1:21 εμοι γαρ το ζην χριστος και το αποθανειν κερδος
Philippians 1:21 For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain.
Philippians 1:22 ει δε το ζην εν σαρκι τουτο μοι καρπος εργου και τι αιρησομαι ου γνωριζω
Philippians 1:22 But if I live in the flesh, this is the fruit of my labour: yet what I shall choose I wot not.
Philippians 1:23 συνεχομαι γαρ εκ των δυο την επιθυμιαν εχων εις το αναλυσαι και συν χριστω ειναι πολλω μαλλον κρεισσον
Philippians 1:23 For I am in a strait betwixt two, having a desire to depart, and to be with Christ; which is far better:
Philippians 1:24 το δε επιμενειν εν τη σαρκι αναγκαιοτερον δι υμας
Philippians 1:24 Nevertheless to abide in the flesh is more needful for you.
Philippians 1:25 και τουτο πεποιθως οιδα οτι μενω και συμπαραμενω πασιν υμιν εις την υμων προκοπην και χαραν της πιστεως
Philippians 1:25 And having this confidence, I know that I shall abide and continue with you all for your furtherance and joy of faith;
Philippians 1:26 ινα το καυχημα υμων περισσευη εν χριστω ιησου εν εμοι δια της εμης παρουσιας παλιν προς υμας
Philippians 1:26 That your rejoicing may be more abundant in Jesus Christ for me by my coming to you again.
Philippians 1:27 μονον αξιως του ευαγγελιου του χριστου πολιτευεσθε ινα ειτε ελθων και ιδων υμας ειτε απων ακουσω τα περι υμων οτι στηκετε εν ενι πνευματι μια ψυχη συναθλουντες τη πιστει του ευαγγελιου
Philippians 1:27 Only let your conversation be as it becometh the gospel of Christ: that whether I come and see you, or else be absent, I may hear of your affairs, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one mind striving together for the faith of the gospel;
Philippians 1:28 και μη πτυρομενοι εν μηδενι υπο των αντικειμενων ητις αυτοις μεν εστιν ενδειξις απωλειας υμιν δε σωτηριας και τουτο απο θεου
Philippians 1:28 And in nothing terrified by your adversaries: which is to them an evident token of perdition, but to you of salvation, and that of God.
Philippians 1:29 οτι υμιν εχαρισθη το υπερ χριστου ου μονον το εις αυτον πιστευειν αλλα και το υπερ αυτου πασχειν
Philippians 1:29 For unto you it is given in the behalf of Christ, not only to believe on him, but also to suffer for his sake;
Philippians 1:30 τον αυτον αγωνα εχοντες οιον ιδετε εν εμοι και νυν ακουετε εν εμοι
Philippians 1:30 Having the same conflict which ye saw in me, and now hear to be in me.
Philippians 2:1 ει τις ουν παρακλησις εν χριστω ει τι παραμυθιον αγαπης ει τις κοινωνια πνευματος ει τινα σπλαγχνα και οικτιρμοι
Philippians 2:1 If there be therefore any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any bowels and mercies,
Philippians 2:2 πληρωσατε μου την χαραν ινα το αυτο φρονητε την αυτην αγαπην εχοντες συμψυχοι το εν φρονουντες
Philippians 2:2 Fulfil ye my joy, that ye be likeminded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind.
Philippians 2:3 μηδεν κατα εριθειαν η κενοδοξιαν αλλα τη ταπεινοφροσυνη αλληλους ηγουμενοι υπερεχοντας εαυτων
Philippians 2:3 Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory; but in lowliness of mind let each esteem other better than themselves.
Philippians 2:4 μη τα εαυτων εκαστος σκοπειτε αλλα και τα ετερων εκαστος
Philippians 2:4 Look not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others.
Philippians 2:5 τουτο γαρ φρονεισθω εν υμιν ο και εν χριστω ιησου
Philippians 2:5 Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus:
Philippians 2:6 ος εν μορφη θεου υπαρχων ουχ αρπαγμον ηγησατο το ειναι ισα θεω
Philippians 2:6 Who, being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God:
Philippians 2:7 αλλ εαυτον εκενωσεν μορφην δουλου λαβων εν ομοιωματι ανθρωπων γενομενος
Philippians 2:7 But made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men:
Philippians 2:8 και σχηματι ευρεθεις ως ανθρωπος εταπεινωσεν εαυτον γενομενος υπηκοος μεχρι θανατου θανατου δε σταυρου
Philippians 2:8 And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself, and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross.
Philippians 2:9 διο και ο θεος αυτον υπερυψωσεν και εχαρισατο αυτω ονομα το υπερ παν ονομα
Philippians 2:9 Wherefore God also hath highly exalted him, and given him a name which is above every name:
Philippians 2:10 ινα εν τω ονοματι ιησου παν γονυ καμψη επουρανιων και επιγειων και καταχθονιων
Philippians 2:10 That at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of things in heaven, and things in earth, and things under the earth;
Philippians 2:11 και πασα γλωσσα εξομολογησηται οτι κυριος ιησους χριστος εις δοξαν θεου πατρος
Philippians 2:11 And that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.
Philippians 2:12 ωστε αγαπητοι μου καθως παντοτε υπηκουσατε μη ως εν τη παρουσια μου μονον αλλα νυν πολλω μαλλον εν τη απουσια μου μετα φοβου και τρομου την εαυτων σωτηριαν κατεργαζεσθε
Philippians 2:12 Wherefore, my beloved, as ye have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling.
Philippians 2:13 ο θεος γαρ εστιν ο ενεργων εν υμιν και το θελειν και το ενεργειν υπερ της ευδοκιας
Philippians 2:13 For it is God which worketh in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure.
Philippians 2:14 παντα ποιειτε χωρις γογγυσμων και διαλογισμων
Philippians 2:14 Do all things without murmurings and disputings:
Philippians 2:15 ινα γενησθε αμεμπτοι και ακεραιοι τεκνα θεου αμωμητα εν μεσω γενεας σκολιας και διεστραμμενης εν οις φαινεσθε ως φωστηρες εν κοσμω
Philippians 2:15 That ye may be blameless and harmless, the sons of God, without rebuke, in the midst of a crooked and perverse nation, among whom ye shine as lights in the world;
Philippians 2:16 λογον ζωης επεχοντες εις καυχημα εμοι εις ημεραν χριστου οτι ουκ εις κενον εδραμον ουδε εις κενον εκοπιασα
Philippians 2:16 Holding forth the word of life; that I may rejoice in the day of Christ, that I have not run in vain, neither laboured in vain.
Philippians 2:17 αλλ ει και σπενδομαι επι τη θυσια και λειτουργια της πιστεως υμων χαιρω και συγχαιρω πασιν υμιν
Philippians 2:17 Yea, and if I be offered upon the sacrifice and service of your faith, I joy, and rejoice with you all.
Philippians 2:18 το δ αυτο και υμεις χαιρετε και συγχαιρετε μοι
Philippians 2:18 For the same cause also do ye joy, and rejoice with me.
Philippians 2:19 ελπιζω δε εν κυριω ιησου τιμοθεον ταχεως πεμψαι υμιν ινα καγω ευψυχω γνους τα περι υμων
Philippians 2:19 But I trust in the Lord Jesus to send Timotheus shortly unto you, that I also may be of good comfort, when I know your state.
Philippians 2:20 ουδενα γαρ εχω ισοψυχον οστις γνησιως τα περι υμων μεριμνησει
Philippians 2:20 For I have no man likeminded, who will naturally care for your state.
Philippians 2:21 οι παντες γαρ τα εαυτων ζητουσιν ου τα του χριστου ιησου
Philippians 2:21 For all seek their own, not the things which are Jesus Christ's.
Philippians 2:22 την δε δοκιμην αυτου γινωσκετε οτι ως πατρι τεκνον συν εμοι εδουλευσεν εις το ευαγγελιον
Philippians 2:22 But ye know the proof of him, that, as a son with the father, he hath served with me in the gospel.
Philippians 2:23 τουτον μεν ουν ελπιζω πεμψαι ως αν απιδω τα περι εμε εξαυτης
Philippians 2:23 Him therefore I hope to send presently, so soon as I shall see how it will go with me.
Philippians 2:24 πεποιθα δε εν κυριω οτι και αυτος ταχεως ελευσομαι
Philippians 2:24 But I trust in the Lord that I also myself shall come shortly.
Philippians 2:25 αναγκαιον δε ηγησαμην επαφροδιτον τον αδελφον και συνεργον και συστρατιωτην μου υμων δε αποστολον και λειτουργον της χρειας μου πεμψαι προς υμας
Philippians 2:25 Yet I supposed it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, my brother, and companion in labour, and fellowsoldier, but your messenger, and he that ministered to my wants.
Philippians 2:26 επειδη επιποθων ην παντας υμας και αδημονων διοτι ηκουσατε οτι ησθενησεν
Philippians 2:26 For he longed after you all, and was full of heaviness, because that ye had heard that he had been sick.
Philippians 2:27 και γαρ ησθενησεν παραπλησιον θανατω αλλ ο θεος αυτον ηλεησεν ουκ αυτον δε μονον αλλα και εμε ινα μη λυπην επι λυπη σχω
Philippians 2:27 For indeed he was sick nigh unto death: but God had mercy on him; and not on him only, but on me also, lest I should have sorrow upon sorrow.
Philippians 2:28 σπουδαιοτερως ουν επεμψα αυτον ινα ιδοντες αυτον παλιν χαρητε καγω αλυποτερος ω
Philippians 2:28 I sent him therefore the more carefully, that, when ye see him again, ye may rejoice, and that I may be the less sorrowful.
Philippians 2:29 προσδεχεσθε ουν αυτον εν κυριω μετα πασης χαρας και τους τοιουτους εντιμους εχετε
Philippians 2:29 Receive him therefore in the Lord with all gladness; and hold such in reputation:
Philippians 2:30 οτι δια το εργον του χριστου μεχρι θανατου ηγγισεν παραβουλευσαμενος τη ψυχη ινα αναπληρωση το υμων υστερημα της προς με λειτουργιας
Philippians 2:30 Because for the work of Christ he was nigh unto death, not regarding his life, to supply your lack of service toward me.
Philippians 3:1 το λοιπον αδελφοι μου χαιρετε εν κυριω τα αυτα γραφειν υμιν εμοι μεν ουκ οκνηρον υμιν δε ασφαλες
Philippians 3:1 Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord. To write the same things to you, to me indeed is not grievous, but for you it is safe.
Philippians 3:2 βλεπετε τους κυνας βλεπετε τους κακους εργατας βλεπετε την κατατομην
Philippians 3:2 Beware of dogs, beware of evil workers, beware of the concision.
Philippians 3:3 ημεις γαρ εσμεν η περιτομη οι πνευματι θεω λατρευοντες και καυχωμενοι εν χριστω ιησου και ουκ εν σαρκι πεποιθοτες
Philippians 3:3 For we are the circumcision, which worship God in the spirit, and rejoice in Christ Jesus, and have no confidence in the flesh.
Philippians 3:4 καιπερ εγω εχων πεποιθησιν και εν σαρκι ει τις δοκει αλλος πεποιθεναι εν σαρκι εγω μαλλον
Philippians 3:4 Though I might also have confidence in the flesh. If any other man thinketh that he hath whereof he might trust in the flesh, I more:
Philippians 3:5 περιτομη οκταημερος εκ γενους ισραηλ φυλης βενιαμιν εβραιος εξ εβραιων κατα νομον φαρισαιος
Philippians 3:5 Circumcised the eighth day, of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, an Hebrew of the Hebrews; as touching the law, a Pharisee;
Philippians 3:6 κατα ζηλον διωκων την εκκλησιαν κατα δικαιοσυνην την εν νομω γενομενος αμεμπτος
Philippians 3:6 Concerning zeal, persecuting the church; touching the righteousness which is in the law, blameless.
Philippians 3:7 αλλ ατινα ην μοι κερδη ταυτα ηγημαι δια τον χριστον ζημιαν
Philippians 3:7 But what things were gain to me, those I counted loss for Christ.
Philippians 3:8 αλλα μενουνγε και ηγουμαι παντα ζημιαν ειναι δια το υπερεχον της γνωσεως χριστου ιησου του κυριου μου δι ον τα παντα εζημιωθην και ηγουμαι σκυβαλα ειναι ινα χριστον κερδησω
Philippians 3:8 Yea doubtless, and I count all things but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord: for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and do count them but dung, that I may win Christ,
Philippians 3:9 και ευρεθω εν αυτω μη εχων εμην δικαιοσυνην την εκ νομου αλλα την δια πιστεως χριστου την εκ θεου δικαιοσυνην επι τη πιστει
Philippians 3:9 And be found in him, not having mine own righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith:
Philippians 3:10 του γνωναι αυτον και την δυναμιν της αναστασεως αυτου και την κοινωνιαν των παθηματων αυτου συμμορφουμενος τω θανατω αυτου
Philippians 3:10 That I may know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being made conformable unto his death;
Philippians 3:11 ει πως καταντησω εις την εξαναστασιν των νεκρων
Philippians 3:11 If by any means I might attain unto the resurrection of the dead.
Philippians 3:12 ουχ οτι ηδη ελαβον η ηδη τετελειωμαι διωκω δε ει και καταλαβω εφ ω και κατεληφθην υπο του χριστου ιησου
Philippians 3:12 Not as though I had already attained, either were already perfect: but I follow after, if that I may apprehend that for which also I am apprehended of Christ Jesus.
Philippians 3:13 αδελφοι εγω εμαυτον ου λογιζομαι κατειληφεναι εν δε τα μεν οπισω επιλανθανομενος τοις δε εμπροσθεν επεκτεινομενος
Philippians 3:13 Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended: but this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind, and reaching forth unto those things which are before,
Philippians 3:14 κατα σκοπον διωκω επι το βραβειον της ανω κλησεως του θεου εν χριστω ιησου
Philippians 3:14 I press toward the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus.
Philippians 3:15 οσοι ουν τελειοι τουτο φρονωμεν και ει τι ετερως φρονειτε και τουτο ο θεος υμιν αποκαλυψει
Philippians 3:15 Let us therefore, as many as be perfect, be thus minded: and if in any thing ye be otherwise minded, God shall reveal even this unto you.
Philippians 3:16 πλην εις ο εφθασαμεν τω αυτω στοιχειν κανονι το αυτο φρονειν
Philippians 3:16 Nevertheless, whereto we have already attained, let us walk by the same rule, let us mind the same thing.
Philippians 3:17 συμμιμηται μου γινεσθε αδελφοι και σκοπειτε τους ουτως περιπατουντας καθως εχετε τυπον ημας
Philippians 3:17 Brethren, be followers together of me, and mark them which walk so as ye have us for an ensample.
Philippians 3:18 πολλοι γαρ περιπατουσιν ους πολλακις ελεγον υμιν νυν δε και κλαιων λεγω τους εχθρους του σταυρου του χριστου
Philippians 3:18 (For many walk, of whom I have told you often, and now tell you even weeping, that they are the enemies of the cross of Christ:
Philippians 3:19 ων το τελος απωλεια ων ο θεος η κοιλια και η δοξα εν τη αισχυνη αυτων οι τα επιγεια φρονουντες
Philippians 3:19 Whose end is destruction, whose God is their belly, and whose glory is in their shame, who mind earthly things.)
Philippians 3:20 ημων γαρ το πολιτευμα εν ουρανοις υπαρχει εξ ου και σωτηρα απεκδεχομεθα κυριον ιησουν χριστον
Philippians 3:20 For our conversation is in heaven; from whence also we look for the Saviour, the Lord Jesus Christ:
Philippians 3:21 ος μετασχηματισει το σωμα της ταπεινωσεως ημων εις το γενεσθαι αυτο συμμορφον τω σωματι της δοξης αυτου κατα την ενεργειαν του δυνασθαι αυτον και υποταξαι εαυτω τα παντα
Philippians 3:21 Who shall change our vile body, that it may be fashioned like unto his glorious body, according to the working whereby he is able even to subdue all things unto himself.
Philippians 4:1 ωστε αδελφοι μου αγαπητοι και επιποθητοι χαρα και στεφανος μου ουτως στηκετε εν κυριω αγαπητοι
Philippians 4:1 Therefore, my brethren dearly beloved and longed for, my joy and crown, so stand fast in the Lord, my dearly beloved.
Philippians 4:2 ευωδιαν παρακαλω και συντυχην παρακαλω το αυτο φρονειν εν κυριω
Philippians 4:2 I beseech Euodias, and beseech Syntyche, that they be of the same mind in the Lord.
Philippians 4:3 και ερωτω και σε συζυγε γνησιε συλλαμβανου αυταις αιτινες εν τω ευαγγελιω συνηθλησαν μοι μετα και κλημεντος και των λοιπων συνεργων μου ων τα ονοματα εν βιβλω ζωης
Philippians 4:3 And I intreat thee also, true yokefellow, help those women which laboured with me in the gospel, with Clement also, and with other my fellowlabourers, whose names are in the book of life.
Philippians 4:4 χαιρετε εν κυριω παντοτε παλιν ερω χαιρετε
Philippians 4:4 Rejoice in the Lord alway: and again I say, Rejoice.
Philippians 4:5 το επιεικες υμων γνωσθητω πασιν ανθρωποις ο κυριος εγγυς
Philippians 4:5 Let your moderation be known unto all men. The Lord is at hand.
Philippians 4:6 μηδεν μεριμνατε αλλ εν παντι τη προσευχη και τη δεησει μετα ευχαριστιας τα αιτηματα υμων γνωριζεσθω προς τον θεον
Philippians 4:6 Be careful for nothing; but in every thing by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known unto God.
Philippians 4:7 και η ειρηνη του θεου η υπερεχουσα παντα νουν φρουρησει τας καρδιας υμων και τα νοηματα υμων εν χριστω ιησου
Philippians 4:7 And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus.
Philippians 4:8 το λοιπον αδελφοι οσα εστιν αληθη οσα σεμνα οσα δικαια οσα αγνα οσα προσφιλη οσα ευφημα ει τις αρετη και ει τις επαινος ταυτα λογιζεσθε
Philippians 4:8 Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report; if there be any virtue, and if there be any praise, think on these things.
Philippians 4:9 α και εμαθετε και παρελαβετε και ηκουσατε και ειδετε εν εμοι ταυτα πρασσετε και ο θεος της ειρηνης εσται μεθ υμων
Philippians 4:9 Those things, which ye have both learned, and received, and heard, and seen in me, do: and the God of peace shall be with you.
Philippians 4:10 εχαρην δε εν κυριω μεγαλως οτι ηδη ποτε ανεθαλετε το υπερ εμου φρονειν εφ ω και εφρονειτε ηκαιρεισθε δε
Philippians 4:10 But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly, that now at the last your care of me hath flourished again; wherein ye were also careful, but ye lacked opportunity.
Philippians 4:11 ουχ οτι καθ υστερησιν λεγω εγω γαρ εμαθον εν οις ειμι αυταρκης ειναι
Philippians 4:11 Not that I speak in respect of want: for I have learned, in whatsoever state I am, therewith to be content.
Philippians 4:12 οιδα δε ταπεινουσθαι οιδα και περισσευειν εν παντι και εν πασιν μεμυημαι και χορταζεσθαι και πειναν και περισσευειν και υστερεισθαι
Philippians 4:12 I know both how to be abased, and I know how to abound: every where and in all things I am instructed both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer need.
Philippians 4:13 παντα ισχυω εν τω ενδυναμουντι με χριστω
Philippians 4:13 I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me.
Philippians 4:14 πλην καλως εποιησατε συγκοινωνησαντες μου τη θλιψει
Philippians 4:14 Notwithstanding ye have well done, that ye did communicate with my affliction.
Philippians 4:15 οιδατε δε και υμεις φιλιππησιοι οτι εν αρχη του ευαγγελιου οτε εξηλθον απο μακεδονιας ουδεμια μοι εκκλησια εκοινωνησεν εις λογον δοσεως και ληψεως ει μη υμεις μονοι
Philippians 4:15 Now ye Philippians know also, that in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no church communicated with me as concerning giving and receiving, but ye only.
Philippians 4:16 οτι και εν θεσσαλονικη και απαξ και δις εις την χρειαν μοι επεμψατε
Philippians 4:16 For even in Thessalonica ye sent once and again unto my necessity.
Philippians 4:17 ουχ οτι επιζητω το δομα αλλ επιζητω τον καρπον τον πλεοναζοντα εις λογον υμων
Philippians 4:17 Not because I desire a gift: but I desire fruit that may abound to your account.
Philippians 4:18 απεχω δε παντα και περισσευω πεπληρωμαι δεξαμενος παρα επαφροδιτου τα παρ υμων οσμην ευωδιας θυσιαν δεκτην ευαρεστον τω θεω
Philippians 4:18 But I have all, and abound: I am full, having received of Epaphroditus the things which were sent from you, an odour of a sweet smell, a sacrifice acceptable, wellpleasing to God.
Philippians 4:19 ο δε θεος μου πληρωσει πασαν χρειαν υμων κατα τον πλουτον αυτου εν δοξη εν χριστω ιησου
Philippians 4:19 But my God shall supply all your need according to his riches in glory by Christ Jesus.
Philippians 4:20 τω δε θεω και πατρι ημων η δοξα εις τους αιωνας των αιωνων αμην
Philippians 4:20 Now unto God and our Father be glory for ever and ever. Amen.
Philippians 4:21 ασπασασθε παντα αγιον εν χριστω ιησου ασπαζονται υμας οι συν εμοι αδελφοι
Philippians 4:21 Salute every saint in Christ Jesus. The brethren which are with me greet you.
Philippians 4:22 ασπαζονται υμας παντες οι αγιοι μαλιστα δε οι εκ της καισαρος οικιας
Philippians 4:22 All the saints salute you, chiefly they that are of Caesar's household.
Philippians 4:23 η χαρις του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου μετα παντων υμων αμην [προς φιλιππησιους εγραφη απο ρωμης δι επαφροδιτου]
Philippians 4:23 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.
Colossians 1:1 παυλος αποστολος ιησου χριστου δια θεληματος θεου και τιμοθεος ο αδελφος
Colossians 1:1 Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, and Timotheus our brother,
Colossians 1:2 τοις εν κολασσαις αγιοις και πιστοις αδελφοις εν χριστω χαρις υμιν και ειρηνη απο θεου πατρος ημων και κυριου ιησου χριστου
Colossians 1:2 To the saints and faithful brethren in Christ which are at Colosse: Grace be unto you, and peace, from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Colossians 1:3 ευχαριστουμεν τω θεω και πατρι του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου παντοτε περι υμων προσευχομενοι
Colossians 1:3 We give thanks to God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, praying always for you,
Colossians 1:4 ακουσαντες την πιστιν υμων εν χριστω ιησου και την αγαπην την εις παντας τους αγιους
Colossians 1:4 Since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus, and of the love which ye have to all the saints,
Colossians 1:5 δια την ελπιδα την αποκειμενην υμιν εν τοις ουρανοις ην προηκουσατε εν τω λογω της αληθειας του ευαγγελιου
Colossians 1:5 For the hope which is laid up for you in heaven, whereof ye heard before in the word of the truth of the gospel;
Colossians 1:6 του παροντος εις υμας καθως και εν παντι τω κοσμω και εστιν καρποφορουμενον καθως και εν υμιν αφ ης ημερας ηκουσατε και επεγνωτε την χαριν του θεου εν αληθεια
Colossians 1:6 Which is come unto you, as it is in all the world; and bringeth forth fruit, as it doth also in you, since the day ye heard of it, and knew the grace of God in truth:
Colossians 1:7 καθως και εμαθετε απο επαφρα του αγαπητου συνδουλου ημων ος εστιν πιστος υπερ υμων διακονος του χριστου
Colossians 1:7 As ye also learned of Epaphras our dear fellowservant, who is for you a faithful minister of Christ;
Colossians 1:8 ο και δηλωσας ημιν την υμων αγαπην εν πνευματι
Colossians 1:8 Who also declared unto us your love in the Spirit.
Colossians 1:9 δια τουτο και ημεις αφ ης ημερας ηκουσαμεν ου παυομεθα υπερ υμων προσευχομενοι και αιτουμενοι ινα πληρωθητε την επιγνωσιν του θεληματος αυτου εν παση σοφια και συνεσει πνευματικη
Colossians 1:9 For this cause we also, since the day we heard it, do not cease to pray for you, and to desire that ye might be filled with the knowledge of his will in all wisdom and spiritual understanding;
Colossians 1:10 περιπατησαι υμας αξιως του κυριου εις πασαν αρεσκειαν εν παντι εργω αγαθω καρποφορουντες και αυξανομενοι εις την επιγνωσιν του θεου
Colossians 1:10 That ye might walk worthy of the Lord unto all pleasing, being fruitful in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God;
Colossians 1:11 εν παση δυναμει δυναμουμενοι κατα το κρατος της δοξης αυτου εις πασαν υπομονην και μακροθυμιαν μετα χαρας
Colossians 1:11 Strengthened with all might, according to his glorious power, unto all patience and longsuffering with joyfulness;
Colossians 1:12 ευχαριστουντες τω πατρι τω ικανωσαντι ημας εις την μεριδα του κληρου των αγιων εν τω φωτι
Colossians 1:12 Giving thanks unto the Father, which hath made us meet to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light:
Colossians 1:13 ος ερρυσατο ημας εκ της εξουσιας του σκοτους και μετεστησεν εις την βασιλειαν του υιου της αγαπης αυτου
Colossians 1:13 Who hath delivered us from the power of darkness, and hath translated us into the kingdom of his dear Son:
Colossians 1:14 εν ω εχομεν την απολυτρωσιν δια του αιματος αυτου την αφεσιν των αμαρτιων
Colossians 1:14 In whom we have redemption through his blood, even the forgiveness of sins:
Colossians 1:15 ος εστιν εικων του θεου του αορατου πρωτοτοκος πασης κτισεως
Colossians 1:15 Who is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of every creature:
Colossians 1:16 οτι εν αυτω εκτισθη τα παντα τα εν τοις ουρανοις και τα επι της γης τα ορατα και τα αορατα ειτε θρονοι ειτε κυριοτητες ειτε αρχαι ειτε εξουσιαι τα παντα δι αυτου και εις αυτον εκτισται
Colossians 1:16 For by him were all things created, that are in heaven, and that are in earth, visible and invisible, whether they be thrones, or dominions, or principalities, or powers: all things were created by him, and for him:
Colossians 1:17 και αυτος εστιν προ παντων και τα παντα εν αυτω συνεστηκεν
Colossians 1:17 And he is before all things, and by him all things consist.
Colossians 1:18 και αυτος εστιν η κεφαλη του σωματος της εκκλησιας ος εστιν αρχη πρωτοτοκος εκ των νεκρων ινα γενηται εν πασιν αυτος πρωτευων
Colossians 1:18 And he is the head of the body, the church: who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead; that in all things he might have the preeminence.
Colossians 1:19 οτι εν αυτω ευδοκησεν παν το πληρωμα κατοικησαι
Colossians 1:19 For it pleased the Father that in him should all fulness dwell;
Colossians 1:20 και δι αυτου αποκαταλλαξαι τα παντα εις αυτον ειρηνοποιησας δια του αιματος του σταυρου αυτου δι αυτου ειτε τα επι της γης ειτε τα εν τοις ουρανοις
Colossians 1:20 And, having made peace through the blood of his cross, by him to reconcile all things unto himself; by him, I say, whether they be things in earth, or things in heaven.
Colossians 1:21 και υμας ποτε οντας απηλλοτριωμενους και εχθρους τη διανοια εν τοις εργοις τοις πονηροις νυνι δε αποκατηλλαξεν
Colossians 1:21 And you, that were sometime alienated and enemies in your mind by wicked works, yet now hath he reconciled
Colossians 1:22 εν τω σωματι της σαρκος αυτου δια του θανατου παραστησαι υμας αγιους και αμωμους και ανεγκλητους κατενωπιον αυτου
Colossians 1:22 In the body of his flesh through death, to present you holy and unblameable and unreproveable in his sight:
Colossians 1:23 ειγε επιμενετε τη πιστει τεθεμελιωμενοι και εδραιοι και μη μετακινουμενοι απο της ελπιδος του ευαγγελιου ου ηκουσατε του κηρυχθεντος εν παση τη κτισει τη υπο τον ουρανον ου εγενομην εγω παυλος διακονος
Colossians 1:23 If ye continue in the faith grounded and settled, and be not moved away from the hope of the gospel, which ye have heard, and which was preached to every creature which is under heaven; whereof I Paul am made a minister;
Colossians 1:24 νυν χαιρω εν τοις παθημασιν μου υπερ υμων και ανταναπληρω τα υστερηματα των θλιψεων του χριστου εν τη σαρκι μου υπερ του σωματος αυτου ο εστιν η εκκλησια
Colossians 1:24 Who now rejoice in my sufferings for you, and fill up that which is behind of the afflictions of Christ in my flesh for his body's sake, which is the church:
Colossians 1:25 ης εγενομην εγω διακονος κατα την οικονομιαν του θεου την δοθεισαν μοι εις υμας πληρωσαι τον λογον του θεου
Colossians 1:25 Whereof I am made a minister, according to the dispensation of God which is given to me for you, to fulfil the word of God;
Colossians 1:26 το μυστηριον το αποκεκρυμμενον απο των αιωνων και απο των γενεων νυνι δε εφανερωθη τοις αγιοις αυτου
Colossians 1:26 Even the mystery which hath been hid from ages and from generations, but now is made manifest to his saints:
Colossians 1:27 οις ηθελησεν ο θεος γνωρισαι τις ο πλουτος της δοξης του μυστηριου τουτου εν τοις εθνεσιν ος εστιν χριστος εν υμιν η ελπις της δοξης
Colossians 1:27 To whom God would make known what is the riches of the glory of this mystery among the Gentiles; which is Christ in you, the hope of glory:
Colossians 1:28 ον ημεις καταγγελλομεν νουθετουντες παντα ανθρωπον και διδασκοντες παντα ανθρωπον εν παση σοφια ινα παραστησωμεν παντα ανθρωπον τελειον εν χριστω ιησου
Colossians 1:28 Whom we preach, warning every man, and teaching every man in all wisdom; that we may present every man perfect in Christ Jesus:
Colossians 1:29 εις ο και κοπιω αγωνιζομενος κατα την ενεργειαν αυτου την ενεργουμενην εν εμοι εν δυναμει
Colossians 1:29 Whereunto I also labour, striving according to his working, which worketh in me mightily.
Colossians 2:1 θελω γαρ υμας ειδεναι ηλικον αγωνα εχω περι υμων και των εν λαοδικεια και οσοι ουχ εωρακασιν το προσωπον μου εν σαρκι
Colossians 2:1 For I would that ye knew what great conflict I have for you, and for them at Laodicea, and for as many as have not seen my face in the flesh;
Colossians 2:2 ινα παρακληθωσιν αι καρδιαι αυτων συμβιβασθεντων εν αγαπη και εις παντα πλουτον της πληροφοριας της συνεσεως εις επιγνωσιν του μυστηριου του θεου και πατρος και του χριστου
Colossians 2:2 That their hearts might be comforted, being knit together in love, and unto all riches of the full assurance of understanding, to the acknowledgement of the mystery of God, and of the Father, and of Christ;
Colossians 2:3 εν ω εισιν παντες οι θησαυροι της σοφιας και της γνωσεως αποκρυφοι
Colossians 2:3 In whom are hid all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge.
Colossians 2:4 τουτο δε λεγω ινα μη τις υμας παραλογιζηται εν πιθανολογια
Colossians 2:4 And this I say, lest any man should beguile you with enticing words.
Colossians 2:5 ει γαρ και τη σαρκι απειμι αλλα τω πνευματι συν υμιν ειμι χαιρων και βλεπων υμων την ταξιν και το στερεωμα της εις χριστον πιστεως υμων
Colossians 2:5 For though I be absent in the flesh, yet am I with you in the spirit, joying and beholding your order, and the stedfastness of your faith in Christ.
Colossians 2:6 ως ουν παρελαβετε τον χριστον ιησουν τον κυριον εν αυτω περιπατειτε
Colossians 2:6 As ye have therefore received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk ye in him:
Colossians 2:7 ερριζωμενοι και εποικοδομουμενοι εν αυτω και βεβαιουμενοι εν τη πιστει καθως εδιδαχθητε περισσευοντες εν αυτη εν ευχαριστια
Colossians 2:7 Rooted and built up in him, and stablished in the faith, as ye have been taught, abounding therein with thanksgiving.
Colossians 2:8 βλεπετε μη τις υμας εσται ο συλαγωγων δια της φιλοσοφιας και κενης απατης κατα την παραδοσιν των ανθρωπων κατα τα στοιχεια του κοσμου και ου κατα χριστον
Colossians 2:8 Beware lest any man spoil you through philosophy and vain deceit, after the tradition of men, after the rudiments of the world, and not after Christ.
Colossians 2:9 οτι εν αυτω κατοικει παν το πληρωμα της θεοτητος σωματικως
Colossians 2:9 For in him dwelleth all the fulness of the Godhead bodily.
Colossians 2:10 και εστε εν αυτω πεπληρωμενοι ος εστιν η κεφαλη πασης αρχης και εξουσιας
Colossians 2:10 And ye are complete in him, which is the head of all principality and power:
Colossians 2:11 εν ω και περιετμηθητε περιτομη αχειροποιητω εν τη απεκδυσει του σωματος των αμαρτιων της σαρκος εν τη περιτομη του χριστου
Colossians 2:11 In whom also ye are circumcised with the circumcision made without hands, in putting off the body of the sins of the flesh by the circumcision of Christ:
Colossians 2:12 συνταφεντες αυτω εν τω βαπτισματι εν ω και συνηγερθητε δια της πιστεως της ενεργειας του θεου του εγειραντος αυτον εκ των νεκρων
Colossians 2:12 Buried with him in baptism, wherein also ye are risen with him through the faith of the operation of God, who hath raised him from the dead.
Colossians 2:13 και υμας νεκρους οντας εν τοις παραπτωμασιν και τη ακροβυστια της σαρκος υμων συνεζωποιησεν συν αυτω χαρισαμενος ημιν παντα τα παραπτωματα
Colossians 2:13 And you, being dead in your sins and the uncircumcision of your flesh, hath he quickened together with him, having forgiven you all trespasses;
Colossians 2:14 εξαλειψας το καθ ημων χειρογραφον τοις δογμασιν ο ην υπεναντιον ημιν και αυτο ηρκεν εκ του μεσου προσηλωσας αυτο τω σταυρω
Colossians 2:14 Blotting out the handwriting of ordinances that was against us, which was contrary to us, and took it out of the way, nailing it to his cross;
Colossians 2:15 απεκδυσαμενος τας αρχας και τας εξουσιας εδειγματισεν εν παρρησια θριαμβευσας αυτους εν αυτω
Colossians 2:15 And having spoiled principalities and powers, he made a shew of them openly, triumphing over them in it.
Colossians 2:16 μη ουν τις υμας κρινετω εν βρωσει η εν ποσει η εν μερει εορτης η νουμηνιας η σαββατων
Colossians 2:16 Let no man therefore judge you in meat, or in drink, or in respect of an holyday, or of the new moon, or of the sabbath days:
Colossians 2:17 α εστιν σκια των μελλοντων το δε σωμα του χριστου
Colossians 2:17 Which are a shadow of things to come; but the body is of Christ.
Colossians 2:18 μηδεις υμας καταβραβευετω θελων εν ταπεινοφροσυνη και θρησκεια των αγγελων α μη εωρακεν εμβατευων εικη φυσιουμενος υπο του νοος της σαρκος αυτου
Colossians 2:18 Let no man beguile you of your reward in a voluntary humility and worshipping of angels, intruding into those things which he hath not seen, vainly puffed up by his fleshly mind,
Colossians 2:19 και ου κρατων την κεφαλην εξ ου παν το σωμα δια των αφων και συνδεσμων επιχορηγουμενον και συμβιβαζομενον αυξει την αυξησιν του θεου
Colossians 2:19 And not holding the Head, from which all the body by joints and bands having nourishment ministered, and knit together, increaseth with the increase of God.
Colossians 2:20 ει ουν απεθανετε συν τω χριστω απο των στοιχειων του κοσμου τι ως ζωντες εν κοσμω δογματιζεσθε
Colossians 2:20 Wherefore if ye be dead with Christ from the rudiments of the world, why, as though living in the world, are ye subject to ordinances,
Colossians 2:21 μη αψη μηδε γευση μηδε θιγης
Colossians 2:21 (Touch not; taste not; handle not;
Colossians 2:22 α εστιν παντα εις φθοραν τη αποχρησει κατα τα ενταλματα και διδασκαλιας των ανθρωπων
Colossians 2:22 Which all are to perish with the using;) after the commandments and doctrines of men?
Colossians 2:23 ατινα εστιν λογον μεν εχοντα σοφιας εν εθελοθρησκεια και ταπεινοφροσυνη και αφειδια σωματος ουκ εν τιμη τινι προς πλησμονην της σαρκος
Colossians 2:23 Which things have indeed a shew of wisdom in will worship, and humility, and neglecting of the body: not in any honour to the satisfying of the flesh.
Colossians 3:1 ει ουν συνηγερθητε τω χριστω τα ανω ζητειτε ου ο χριστος εστιν εν δεξια του θεου καθημενος
Colossians 3:1 If ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God.
Colossians 3:2 τα ανω φρονειτε μη τα επι της γης
Colossians 3:2 Set your affection on things above, not on things on the earth.
Colossians 3:3 απεθανετε γαρ και η ζωη υμων κεκρυπται συν τω χριστω εν τω θεω
Colossians 3:3 For ye are dead, and your life is hid with Christ in God.
Colossians 3:4 οταν ο χριστος φανερωθη η ζωη ημων τοτε και υμεις συν αυτω φανερωθησεσθε εν δοξη
Colossians 3:4 When Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then shall ye also appear with him in glory.
Colossians 3:5 νεκρωσατε ουν τα μελη υμων τα επι της γης πορνειαν ακαθαρσιαν παθος επιθυμιαν κακην και την πλεονεξιαν ητις εστιν ειδωλολατρεια
Colossians 3:5 Mortify therefore your members which are upon the earth; fornication, uncleanness, inordinate affection, evil concupiscence, and covetousness, which is idolatry:
Colossians 3:6 δι α ερχεται η οργη του θεου επι τους υιους της απειθειας
Colossians 3:6 For which things' sake the wrath of God cometh on the children of disobedience:
Colossians 3:7 εν οις και υμεις περιεπατησατε ποτε οτε εζητε εν αυτοις
Colossians 3:7 In the which ye also walked some time, when ye lived in them.
Colossians 3:8 νυνι δε αποθεσθε και υμεις τα παντα οργην θυμον κακιαν βλασφημιαν αισχρολογιαν εκ του στοματος υμων
Colossians 3:8 But now ye also put off all these; anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, filthy communication out of your mouth.
Colossians 3:9 μη ψευδεσθε εις αλληλους απεκδυσαμενοι τον παλαιον ανθρωπον συν ταις πραξεσιν αυτου
Colossians 3:9 Lie not one to another, seeing that ye have put off the old man with his deeds;
Colossians 3:10 και ενδυσαμενοι τον νεον τον ανακαινουμενον εις επιγνωσιν κατ εικονα του κτισαντος αυτον
Colossians 3:10 And have put on the new man, which is renewed in knowledge after the image of him that created him:
Colossians 3:11 οπου ουκ ενι ελλην και ιουδαιος περιτομη και ακροβυστια βαρβαρος σκυθης δουλος ελευθερος αλλα τα παντα και εν πασιν χριστος
Colossians 3:11 Where there is neither Greek nor Jew, circumcision nor uncircumcision, Barbarian, Scythian, bond nor free: but Christ is all, and in all.
Colossians 3:12 ενδυσασθε ουν ως εκλεκτοι του θεου αγιοι και ηγαπημενοι σπλαγχνα οικτιρμων χρηστοτητα ταπεινοφροσυνην πραοτητα μακροθυμιαν
Colossians 3:12 Put on therefore, as the elect of God, holy and beloved, bowels of mercies, kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, longsuffering;
Colossians 3:13 ανεχομενοι αλληλων και χαριζομενοι εαυτοις εαν τις προς τινα εχη μομφην καθως και ο χριστος εχαρισατο υμιν ουτως και υμεις
Colossians 3:13 Forbearing one another, and forgiving one another, if any man have a quarrel against any: even as Christ forgave you, so also do ye.
Colossians 3:14 επι πασιν δε τουτοις την αγαπην ητις εστιν συνδεσμος της τελειοτητος
Colossians 3:14 And above all these things put on charity, which is the bond of perfectness.
Colossians 3:15 και η ειρηνη του θεου βραβευετω εν ταις καρδιαις υμων εις ην και εκληθητε εν ενι σωματι και ευχαριστοι γινεσθε
Colossians 3:15 And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to the which also ye are called in one body; and be ye thankful.
Colossians 3:16 ο λογος του χριστου ενοικειτω εν υμιν πλουσιως εν παση σοφια διδασκοντες και νουθετουντες εαυτους ψαλμοις και υμνοις και ωδαις πνευματικαις εν χαριτι αδοντες εν τη καρδια υμων τω κυριω
Colossians 3:16 Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom; teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord.
Colossians 3:17 και παν ο τι αν ποιητε εν λογω η εν εργω παντα εν ονοματι κυριου ιησου ευχαριστουντες τω θεω και πατρι δι αυτου
Colossians 3:17 And whatsoever ye do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God and the Father by him.
Colossians 3:18 αι γυναικες υποτασσεσθε τοις ιδιοις ανδρασιν ως ανηκεν εν κυριω
Colossians 3:18 Wives, submit yourselves unto your own husbands, as it is fit in the Lord.
Colossians 3:19 οι ανδρες αγαπατε τας γυναικας και μη πικραινεσθε προς αυτας
Colossians 3:19 Husbands, love your wives, and be not bitter against them.
Colossians 3:20 τα τεκνα υπακουετε τοις γονευσιν κατα παντα τουτο γαρ εστιν ευαρεστον τω κυριω
Colossians 3:20 Children, obey your parents in all things: for this is well pleasing unto the Lord.
Colossians 3:21 οι πατερες μη ερεθιζετε τα τεκνα υμων ινα μη αθυμωσιν
Colossians 3:21 Fathers, provoke not your children to anger, lest they be discouraged.
Colossians 3:22 οι δουλοι υπακουετε κατα παντα τοις κατα σαρκα κυριοις μη εν οφθαλμοδουλειαις ως ανθρωπαρεσκοι αλλ εν απλοτητι καρδιας φοβουμενοι τον θεον
Colossians 3:22 Servants, obey in all things your masters according to the flesh; not with eyeservice, as menpleasers; but in singleness of heart, fearing God;
Colossians 3:23 και παν ο τι εαν ποιητε εκ ψυχης εργαζεσθε ως τω κυριω και ουκ ανθρωποις
Colossians 3:23 And whatsoever ye do, do it heartily, as to the Lord, and not unto men;
Colossians 3:24 ειδοτες οτι απο κυριου αποληψεσθε την ανταποδοσιν της κληρονομιας τω γαρ κυριω χριστω δουλευετε
Colossians 3:24 Knowing that of the Lord ye shall receive the reward of the inheritance: for ye serve the Lord Christ.
Colossians 3:25 ο δε αδικων κομιειται ο ηδικησεν και ουκ εστιν προσωποληψια
Colossians 3:25 But he that doeth wrong shall receive for the wrong which he hath done: and there is no respect of persons.
Colossians 4:1 οι κυριοι το δικαιον και την ισοτητα τοις δουλοις παρεχεσθε ειδοτες οτι και υμεις εχετε κυριον εν ουρανοις
Colossians 4:1 Masters, give unto your servants that which is just and equal; knowing that ye also have a Master in heaven.
Colossians 4:2 τη προσευχη προσκαρτερειτε γρηγορουντες εν αυτη εν ευχαριστια
Colossians 4:2 Continue in prayer, and watch in the same with thanksgiving;
Colossians 4:3 προσευχομενοι αμα και περι ημων ινα ο θεος ανοιξη ημιν θυραν του λογου λαλησαι το μυστηριον του χριστου δι ο και δεδεμαι
Colossians 4:3 Withal praying also for us, that God would open unto us a door of utterance, to speak the mystery of Christ, for which I am also in bonds:
Colossians 4:4 ινα φανερωσω αυτο ως δει με λαλησαι
Colossians 4:4 That I may make it manifest, as I ought to speak.
Colossians 4:5 εν σοφια περιπατειτε προς τους εξω τον καιρον εξαγοραζομενοι
Colossians 4:5 Walk in wisdom toward them that are without, redeeming the time.
Colossians 4:6 ο λογος υμων παντοτε εν χαριτι αλατι ηρτυμενος ειδεναι πως δει υμας ενι εκαστω αποκρινεσθαι
Colossians 4:6 Let your speech be alway with grace, seasoned with salt, that ye may know how ye ought to answer every man.
Colossians 4:7 τα κατ εμε παντα γνωρισει υμιν τυχικος ο αγαπητος αδελφος και πιστος διακονος και συνδουλος εν κυριω
Colossians 4:7 All my state shall Tychicus declare unto you, who is a beloved brother, and a faithful minister and fellowservant in the Lord:
Colossians 4:8 ον επεμψα προς υμας εις αυτο τουτο ινα γνω τα περι υμων και παρακαλεση τας καρδιας υμων
Colossians 4:8 Whom I have sent unto you for the same purpose, that he might know your estate, and comfort your hearts;
Colossians 4:9 συν ονησιμω τω πιστω και αγαπητω αδελφω ος εστιν εξ υμων παντα υμιν γνωριουσιν τα ωδε
Colossians 4:9 With Onesimus, a faithful and beloved brother, who is one of you. They shall make known unto you all things which are done here.
Colossians 4:10 ασπαζεται υμας αρισταρχος ο συναιχμαλωτος μου και μαρκος ο ανεψιος βαρναβα περι ου ελαβετε εντολας εαν ελθη προς υμας δεξασθε αυτον
Colossians 4:10 Aristarchus my fellowprisoner saluteth you, and Marcus, sister's son to Barnabas, (touching whom ye received commandments: if he come unto you, receive him;)
Colossians 4:11 και ιησους ο λεγομενος ιουστος οι οντες εκ περιτομης ουτοι μονοι συνεργοι εις την βασιλειαν του θεου οιτινες εγενηθησαν μοι παρηγορια
Colossians 4:11 And Jesus, which is called Justus, who are of the circumcision. These only are my fellowworkers unto the kingdom of God, which have been a comfort unto me.
Colossians 4:12 ασπαζεται υμας επαφρας ο εξ υμων δουλος χριστου παντοτε αγωνιζομενος υπερ υμων εν ταις προσευχαις ινα στητε τελειοι και πεπληρωμενοι εν παντι θεληματι του θεου
Colossians 4:12 Epaphras, who is one of you, a servant of Christ, saluteth you, always labouring fervently for you in prayers, that ye may stand perfect and complete in all the will of God.
Colossians 4:13 μαρτυρω γαρ αυτω οτι εχει ζηλον πολυν υπερ υμων και των εν λαοδικεια και των εν ιεραπολει
Colossians 4:13 For I bear him record, that he hath a great zeal for you, and them that are in Laodicea, and them in Hierapolis.
Colossians 4:14 ασπαζεται υμας λουκας ο ιατρος ο αγαπητος και δημας
Colossians 4:14 Luke, the beloved physician, and Demas, greet you.
Colossians 4:15 ασπασασθε τους εν λαοδικεια αδελφους και νυμφαν και την κατ οικον αυτου εκκλησιαν
Colossians 4:15 Salute the brethren which are in Laodicea, and Nymphas, and the church which is in his house.
Colossians 4:16 και οταν αναγνωσθη παρ υμιν η επιστολη ποιησατε ινα και εν τη λαοδικεων εκκλησια αναγνωσθη και την εκ λαοδικειας ινα και υμεις αναγνωτε
Colossians 4:16 And when this epistle is read among you, cause that it be read also in the church of the Laodiceans; and that ye likewise read the epistle from Laodicea.
Colossians 4:17 και ειπατε αρχιππω βλεπε την διακονιαν ην παρελαβες εν κυριω ινα αυτην πληροις
Colossians 4:17 And say to Archippus, Take heed to the ministry which thou hast received in the Lord, that thou fulfil it.
Colossians 4:18 ο ασπασμος τη εμη χειρι παυλου μνημονευετε μου των δεσμων η χαρις μεθ υμων αμην [προς κολασσαεις εγραφη απο ρωμης δια τυχικου και ονησιμου]
Colossians 4:18 The salutation by the hand of me Paul. Remember my bonds.  Grace be with you. Amen.
1 Thessalonians 1:1 παυλος και σιλουανος και τιμοθεος τη εκκλησια θεσσαλονικεων εν θεω πατρι και κυριω ιησου χριστω χαρις υμιν και ειρηνη απο θεου πατρος ημων και κυριου ιησου χριστου
1 Thessalonians 1:1 Paul, and Silvanus, and Timotheus, unto the church of the Thessalonians which is in God the Father and in the Lord Jesus Christ: Grace be unto you, and peace, from God our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ.
1 Thessalonians 1:2 ευχαριστουμεν τω θεω παντοτε περι παντων υμων μνειαν υμων ποιουμενοι επι των προσευχων ημων
1 Thessalonians 1:2 We give thanks to God always for you all, making mention of you in our prayers;
1 Thessalonians 1:3 αδιαλειπτως μνημονευοντες υμων του εργου της πιστεως και του κοπου της αγαπης και της υπομονης της ελπιδος του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου εμπροσθεν του θεου και πατρος ημων
1 Thessalonians 1:3 Remembering without ceasing your work of faith, and labour of love, and patience of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ, in the sight of God and our Father;
1 Thessalonians 1:4 ειδοτες αδελφοι ηγαπημενοι υπο θεου την εκλογην υμων
1 Thessalonians 1:4 Knowing, brethren beloved, your election of God.
1 Thessalonians 1:5 οτι το ευαγγελιον ημων ουκ εγενηθη εις υμας εν λογω μονον αλλα και εν δυναμει και εν πνευματι αγιω και εν πληροφορια πολλη καθως οιδατε οιοι εγενηθημεν εν υμιν δι υμας
1 Thessalonians 1:5 For our gospel came not unto you in word only, but also in power, and in the Holy Ghost, and in much assurance; as ye know what manner of men we were among you for your sake.
1 Thessalonians 1:6 και υμεις μιμηται ημων εγενηθητε και του κυριου δεξαμενοι τον λογον εν θλιψει πολλη μετα χαρας πνευματος αγιου
1 Thessalonians 1:6 And ye became followers of us, and of the Lord, having received the word in much affliction, with joy of the Holy Ghost.
1 Thessalonians 1:7 ωστε γενεσθαι υμας τυπους πασιν τοις πιστευουσιν εν τη μακεδονια και τη αχαια
1 Thessalonians 1:7 So that ye were ensamples to all that believe in Macedonia and Achaia.
1 Thessalonians 1:8 αφ υμων γαρ εξηχηται ο λογος του κυριου ου μονον εν τη μακεδονια και αχαια αλλα και εν παντι τοπω η πιστις υμων η προς τον θεον εξεληλυθεν ωστε μη χρειαν ημας εχειν λαλειν τι
1 Thessalonians 1:8 For from you sounded out the word of the Lord not only in Macedonia and Achaia, but also in every place your faith to God-ward is spread abroad; so that we need not to speak any thing.
1 Thessalonians 1:9 αυτοι γαρ περι ημων απαγγελλουσιν οποιαν εισοδον εχομεν προς υμας και πως επεστρεψατε προς τον θεον απο των ειδωλων δουλευειν θεω ζωντι και αληθινω
1 Thessalonians 1:9 For they themselves shew of us what manner of entering in we had unto you, and how ye turned to God from idols to serve the living and true God;
1 Thessalonians 1:10 και αναμενειν τον υιον αυτου εκ των ουρανων ον ηγειρεν εκ νεκρων ιησουν τον ρυομενον ημας απο της οργης της ερχομενης
1 Thessalonians 1:10 And to wait for his Son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, even Jesus, which delivered us from the wrath to come.
1 Thessalonians 2:1 αυτοι γαρ οιδατε αδελφοι την εισοδον ημων την προς υμας οτι ου κενη γεγονεν
1 Thessalonians 2:1 For yourselves, brethren, know our entrance in unto you, that it was not in vain:
1 Thessalonians 2:2 αλλα και προπαθοντες και υβρισθεντες καθως οιδατε εν φιλιπποις επαρρησιασαμεθα εν τω θεω ημων λαλησαι προς υμας το ευαγγελιον του θεου εν πολλω αγωνι
1 Thessalonians 2:2 But even after that we had suffered before, and were shamefully entreated, as ye know, at Philippi, we were bold in our God to speak unto you the gospel of God with much contention.
1 Thessalonians 2:3 η γαρ παρακλησις ημων ουκ εκ πλανης ουδε εξ ακαθαρσιας ουτε εν δολω
1 Thessalonians 2:3 For our exhortation was not of deceit, nor of uncleanness, nor in guile:
1 Thessalonians 2:4 αλλα καθως δεδοκιμασμεθα υπο του θεου πιστευθηναι το ευαγγελιον ουτως λαλουμεν ουχ ως ανθρωποις αρεσκοντες αλλα τω θεω τω δοκιμαζοντι τας καρδιας ημων
1 Thessalonians 2:4 But as we were allowed of God to be put in trust with the gospel, even so we speak; not as pleasing men, but God, which trieth our hearts.
1 Thessalonians 2:5 ουτε γαρ ποτε εν λογω κολακειας εγενηθημεν καθως οιδατε ουτε εν προφασει πλεονεξιας θεος μαρτυς
1 Thessalonians 2:5 For neither at any time used we flattering words, as ye know, nor a cloke of covetousness; God is witness:
1 Thessalonians 2:6 ουτε ζητουντες εξ ανθρωπων δοξαν ουτε αφ υμων ουτε απ αλλων δυναμενοι εν βαρει ειναι ως χριστου αποστολοι
1 Thessalonians 2:6 Nor of men sought we glory, neither of you, nor yet of others, when we might have been burdensome, as the apostles of Christ.
1 Thessalonians 2:7 αλλ εγενηθημεν ηπιοι εν μεσω υμων ως αν τροφος θαλπη τα εαυτης τεκνα
1 Thessalonians 2:7 But we were gentle among you, even as a nurse cherisheth her children:
1 Thessalonians 2:8 ουτως ιμειρομενοι υμων ευδοκουμεν μεταδουναι υμιν ου μονον το ευαγγελιον του θεου αλλα και τας εαυτων ψυχας διοτι αγαπητοι ημιν γεγενησθε
1 Thessalonians 2:8 So being affectionately desirous of you, we were willing to have imparted unto you, not the gospel of God only, but also our own souls, because ye were dear unto us.
1 Thessalonians 2:9 μνημονευετε γαρ αδελφοι τον κοπον ημων και τον μοχθον νυκτος γαρ και ημερας εργαζομενοι προς το μη επιβαρησαι τινα υμων εκηρυξαμεν εις υμας το ευαγγελιον του θεου
1 Thessalonians 2:9 For ye remember, brethren, our labour and travail: for labouring night and day, because we would not be chargeable unto any of you, we preached unto you the gospel of God.
1 Thessalonians 2:10 υμεις μαρτυρες και ο θεος ως οσιως και δικαιως και αμεμπτως υμιν τοις πιστευουσιν εγενηθημεν
1 Thessalonians 2:10 Ye are witnesses, and God also, how holily and justly and unblameably we behaved ourselves among you that believe:
1 Thessalonians 2:11 καθαπερ οιδατε ως ενα εκαστον υμων ως πατηρ τεκνα εαυτου παρακαλουντες υμας και παραμυθουμενοι
1 Thessalonians 2:11 As ye know how we exhorted and comforted and charged every one of you, as a father doth his children,
1 Thessalonians 2:12 και μαρτυρουμενοι εις το περιπατησαι υμας αξιως του θεου του καλουντος υμας εις την εαυτου βασιλειαν και δοξαν
1 Thessalonians 2:12 That ye would walk worthy of God, who hath called you unto his kingdom and glory.
1 Thessalonians 2:13 δια τουτο και ημεις ευχαριστουμεν τω θεω αδιαλειπτως οτι παραλαβοντες λογον ακοης παρ ημων του θεου εδεξασθε ου λογον ανθρωπων αλλα καθως εστιν αληθως λογον θεου ος και ενεργειται εν υμιν τοις πιστευουσιν
1 Thessalonians 2:13 For this cause also thank we God without ceasing, because, when ye received the word of God which ye heard of us, ye received it not as the word of men, but as it is in truth, the word of God, which effectually worketh also in you that believe.
1 Thessalonians 2:14 υμεις γαρ μιμηται εγενηθητε αδελφοι των εκκλησιων του θεου των ουσων εν τη ιουδαια εν χριστω ιησου οτι ταυτα επαθετε και υμεις υπο των ιδιων συμφυλετων καθως και αυτοι υπο των ιουδαιων
1 Thessalonians 2:14 For ye, brethren, became followers of the churches of God which in Judaea are in Christ Jesus: for ye also have suffered like things of your own countrymen, even as they have of the Jews:
1 Thessalonians 2:15 των και τον κυριον αποκτειναντων ιησουν και τους ιδιους προφητας και υμας εκδιωξαντων και θεω μη αρεσκοντων και πασιν ανθρωποις εναντιων
1 Thessalonians 2:15 Who both killed the Lord Jesus, and their own prophets, and have persecuted us; and they please not God, and are contrary to all men:
1 Thessalonians 2:16 κωλυοντων ημας τοις εθνεσιν λαλησαι ινα σωθωσιν εις το αναπληρωσαι αυτων τας αμαρτιας παντοτε εφθασεν δε επ αυτους η οργη εις τελος
1 Thessalonians 2:16 Forbidding us to speak to the Gentiles that they might be saved, to fill up their sins alway: for the wrath is come upon them to the uttermost.
1 Thessalonians 2:17 ημεις δε αδελφοι απορφανισθεντες αφ υμων προς καιρον ωρας προσωπω ου καρδια περισσοτερως εσπουδασαμεν το προσωπον υμων ιδειν εν πολλη επιθυμια
1 Thessalonians 2:17 But we, brethren, being taken from you for a short time in presence, not in heart, endeavoured the more abundantly to see your face with great desire.
1 Thessalonians 2:18 διο ηθελησαμεν ελθειν προς υμας εγω μεν παυλος και απαξ και δις και ενεκοψεν ημας ο σατανας
1 Thessalonians 2:18 Wherefore we would have come unto you, even I Paul, once and again; but Satan hindered us.
1 Thessalonians 2:19 τις γαρ ημων ελπις η χαρα η στεφανος καυχησεως η ουχι και υμεις εμπροσθεν του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου εν τη αυτου παρουσια
1 Thessalonians 2:19 For what is our hope, or joy, or crown of rejoicing? Are not even ye in the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ at his coming?
1 Thessalonians 2:20 υμεις γαρ εστε η δοξα ημων και η χαρα
1 Thessalonians 2:20 For ye are our glory and joy.
1 Thessalonians 3:1 διο μηκετι στεγοντες ευδοκησαμεν καταλειφθηναι εν αθηναις μονοι
1 Thessalonians 3:1 Wherefore when we could no longer forbear, we thought it good to be left at Athens alone;
1 Thessalonians 3:2 και επεμψαμεν τιμοθεον τον αδελφον ημων και διακονον του θεου και συνεργον ημων εν τω ευαγγελιω του χριστου εις το στηριξαι υμας και παρακαλεσαι υμας περι της πιστεως υμων
1 Thessalonians 3:2 And sent Timotheus, our brother, and minister of God, and our fellowlabourer in the gospel of Christ, to establish you, and to comfort you concerning your faith:
1 Thessalonians 3:3 τω μηδενα σαινεσθαι εν ταις θλιψεσιν ταυταις αυτοι γαρ οιδατε οτι εις τουτο κειμεθα
1 Thessalonians 3:3 That no man should be moved by these afflictions: for yourselves know that we are appointed thereunto.
1 Thessalonians 3:4 και γαρ οτε προς υμας ημεν προελεγομεν υμιν οτι μελλομεν θλιβεσθαι καθως και εγενετο και οιδατε
1 Thessalonians 3:4 For verily, when we were with you, we told you before that we should suffer tribulation; even as it came to pass, and ye know.
1 Thessalonians 3:5 δια τουτο καγω μηκετι στεγων επεμψα εις το γνωναι την πιστιν υμων μηπως επειρασεν υμας ο πειραζων και εις κενον γενηται ο κοπος ημων
1 Thessalonians 3:5 For this cause, when I could no longer forbear, I sent to know your faith, lest by some means the tempter have tempted you, and our labour be in vain.
1 Thessalonians 3:6 αρτι δε ελθοντος τιμοθεου προς ημας αφ υμων και ευαγγελισαμενου ημιν την πιστιν και την αγαπην υμων και οτι εχετε μνειαν ημων αγαθην παντοτε επιποθουντες ημας ιδειν καθαπερ και ημεις υμας
1 Thessalonians 3:6 But now when Timotheus came from you unto us, and brought us good tidings of your faith and charity, and that ye have good remembrance of us always, desiring greatly to see us, as we also to see you:
1 Thessalonians 3:7 δια τουτο παρεκληθημεν αδελφοι εφ υμιν επι παση τη θλιψει και αναγκη ημων δια της υμων πιστεως
1 Thessalonians 3:7 Therefore, brethren, we were comforted over you in all our affliction and distress by your faith:
1 Thessalonians 3:8 οτι νυν ζωμεν εαν υμεις στηκητε εν κυριω
1 Thessalonians 3:8 For now we live, if ye stand fast in the Lord.
1 Thessalonians 3:9 τινα γαρ ευχαριστιαν δυναμεθα τω θεω ανταποδουναι περι υμων επι παση τη χαρα η χαιρομεν δι υμας εμπροσθεν του θεου ημων
1 Thessalonians 3:9 For what thanks can we render to God again for you, for all the joy wherewith we joy for your sakes before our God;
1 Thessalonians 3:10 νυκτος και ημερας υπερ εκπερισσου δεομενοι εις το ιδειν υμων το προσωπον και καταρτισαι τα υστερηματα της πιστεως υμων
1 Thessalonians 3:10 Night and day praying exceedingly that we might see your face, and might perfect that which is lacking in your faith?
1 Thessalonians 3:11 αυτος δε ο θεος και πατηρ ημων και ο κυριος ημων ιησους χριστος κατευθυναι την οδον ημων προς υμας
1 Thessalonians 3:11 Now God himself and our Father, and our Lord Jesus Christ, direct our way unto you.
1 Thessalonians 3:12 υμας δε ο κυριος πλεονασαι και περισσευσαι τη αγαπη εις αλληλους και εις παντας καθαπερ και ημεις εις υμας
1 Thessalonians 3:12 And the Lord make you to increase and abound in love one toward another, and toward all men, even as we do toward you:
1 Thessalonians 3:13 εις το στηριξαι υμων τας καρδιας αμεμπτους εν αγιωσυνη εμπροσθεν του θεου και πατρος ημων εν τη παρουσια του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου μετα παντων των αγιων αυτου
1 Thessalonians 3:13 To the end he may stablish your hearts unblameable in holiness before God, even our Father, at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ with all his saints.
1 Thessalonians 4:1 το λοιπον ουν αδελφοι ερωτωμεν υμας και παρακαλουμεν εν κυριω ιησου καθως παρελαβετε παρ ημων το πως δει υμας περιπατειν και αρεσκειν θεω ινα περισσευητε μαλλον
1 Thessalonians 4:1 Furthermore then we beseech you, brethren, and exhort you by the Lord Jesus, that as ye have received of us how ye ought to walk and to please God, so ye would abound more and more.
1 Thessalonians 4:2 οιδατε γαρ τινας παραγγελιας εδωκαμεν υμιν δια του κυριου ιησου
1 Thessalonians 4:2 For ye know what commandments we gave you by the Lord Jesus.
1 Thessalonians 4:3 τουτο γαρ εστιν θελημα του θεου ο αγιασμος υμων απεχεσθαι υμας απο της πορνειας
1 Thessalonians 4:3 For this is the will of God, even your sanctification, that ye should abstain from fornication:
1 Thessalonians 4:4 ειδεναι εκαστον υμων το εαυτου σκευος κτασθαι εν αγιασμω και τιμη
1 Thessalonians 4:4 That every one of you should know how to possess his vessel in sanctification and honour;
1 Thessalonians 4:5 μη εν παθει επιθυμιας καθαπερ και τα εθνη τα μη ειδοτα τον θεον
1 Thessalonians 4:5 Not in the lust of concupiscence, even as the Gentiles which know not God:
1 Thessalonians 4:6 το μη υπερβαινειν και πλεονεκτειν εν τω πραγματι τον αδελφον αυτου διοτι εκδικος ο κυριος περι παντων τουτων καθως και προειπαμεν υμιν και διεμαρτυραμεθα
1 Thessalonians 4:6 That no man go beyond and defraud his brother in any matter: because that the Lord is the avenger of all such, as we also have forewarned you and testified.
1 Thessalonians 4:7 ου γαρ εκαλεσεν ημας ο θεος επι ακαθαρσια αλλ εν αγιασμω
1 Thessalonians 4:7 For God hath not called us unto uncleanness, but unto holiness.
1 Thessalonians 4:8 τοιγαρουν ο αθετων ουκ ανθρωπον αθετει αλλα τον θεον τον και δοντα το πνευμα αυτου το αγιον εις ημας
1 Thessalonians 4:8 He therefore that despiseth, despiseth not man, but God, who hath also given unto us his holy Spirit.
1 Thessalonians 4:9 περι δε της φιλαδελφιας ου χρειαν εχετε γραφειν υμιν αυτοι γαρ υμεις θεοδιδακτοι εστε εις το αγαπαν αλληλους
1 Thessalonians 4:9 But as touching brotherly love ye need not that I write unto you: for ye yourselves are taught of God to love one another.
1 Thessalonians 4:10 και γαρ ποιειτε αυτο εις παντας τους αδελφους τους εν ολη τη μακεδονια παρακαλουμεν δε υμας αδελφοι περισσευειν μαλλον
1 Thessalonians 4:10 And indeed ye do it toward all the brethren which are in all Macedonia: but we beseech you, brethren, that ye increase more and more;
1 Thessalonians 4:11 και φιλοτιμεισθαι ησυχαζειν και πρασσειν τα ιδια και εργαζεσθαι ταις ιδιαις χερσιν υμων καθως υμιν παρηγγειλαμεν
1 Thessalonians 4:11 And that ye study to be quiet, and to do your own business, and to work with your own hands, as we commanded you;
1 Thessalonians 4:12 ινα περιπατητε ευσχημονως προς τους εξω και μηδενος χρειαν εχητε
1 Thessalonians 4:12 That ye may walk honestly toward them that are without, and that ye may have lack of nothing.
1 Thessalonians 4:13 ου θελω δε υμας αγνοειν αδελφοι περι των κεκοιμημενων ινα μη λυπησθε καθως και οι λοιποι οι μη εχοντες ελπιδα
1 Thessalonians 4:13 But I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning them which are asleep, that ye sorrow not, even as others which have no hope.
1 Thessalonians 4:14 ει γαρ πιστευομεν οτι ιησους απεθανεν και ανεστη ουτως και ο θεος τους κοιμηθεντας δια του ιησου αξει συν αυτω
1 Thessalonians 4:14 For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so them also which sleep in Jesus will God bring with him.
1 Thessalonians 4:15 τουτο γαρ υμιν λεγομεν εν λογω κυριου οτι ημεις οι ζωντες οι περιλειπομενοι εις την παρουσιαν του κυριου ου μη φθασωμεν τους κοιμηθεντας
1 Thessalonians 4:15 For this we say unto you by the word of the Lord, that we which are alive and remain unto the coming of the Lord shall not prevent them which are asleep.
1 Thessalonians 4:16 οτι αυτος ο κυριος εν κελευσματι εν φωνη αρχαγγελου και εν σαλπιγγι θεου καταβησεται απ ουρανου και οι νεκροι εν χριστω αναστησονται πρωτον
1 Thessalonians 4:16 For the Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, and with the trump of God: and the dead in Christ shall rise first:
1 Thessalonians 4:17 επειτα ημεις οι ζωντες οι περιλειπομενοι αμα συν αυτοις αρπαγησομεθα εν νεφελαις εις απαντησιν του κυριου εις αερα και ουτως παντοτε συν κυριω εσομεθα
1 Thessalonians 4:17 Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds, to meet the Lord in the air: and so shall we ever be with the Lord.
1 Thessalonians 4:18 ωστε παρακαλειτε αλληλους εν τοις λογοις τουτοις
1 Thessalonians 4:18 Wherefore comfort one another with these words.
1 Thessalonians 5:1 περι δε των χρονων και των καιρων αδελφοι ου χρειαν εχετε υμιν γραφεσθαι
1 Thessalonians 5:1 But of the times and the seasons, brethren, ye have no need that I write unto you.
1 Thessalonians 5:2 αυτοι γαρ ακριβως οιδατε οτι η ημερα κυριου ως κλεπτης εν νυκτι ουτως ερχεται
1 Thessalonians 5:2 For yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord so cometh as a thief in the night.
1 Thessalonians 5:3 οταν γαρ λεγωσιν ειρηνη και ασφαλεια τοτε αιφνιδιος αυτοις εφισταται ολεθρος ωσπερ η ωδιν τη εν γαστρι εχουση και ου μη εκφυγωσιν
1 Thessalonians 5:3 For when they shall say, Peace and safety; then sudden destruction cometh upon them, as travail upon a woman with child; and they shall not escape.
1 Thessalonians 5:4 υμεις δε αδελφοι ουκ εστε εν σκοτει ινα η ημερα υμας ως κλεπτης καταλαβη
1 Thessalonians 5:4 But ye, brethren, are not in darkness, that that day should overtake you as a thief.
1 Thessalonians 5:5 παντες υμεις υιοι φωτος εστε και υιοι ημερας ουκ εσμεν νυκτος ουδε σκοτους
1 Thessalonians 5:5 Ye are all the children of light, and the children of the day: we are not of the night, nor of darkness.
1 Thessalonians 5:6 αρα ουν μη καθευδωμεν ως και οι λοιποι αλλα γρηγορωμεν και νηφωμεν
1 Thessalonians 5:6 Therefore let us not sleep, as do others; but let us watch and be sober.
1 Thessalonians 5:7 οι γαρ καθευδοντες νυκτος καθευδουσιν και οι μεθυσκομενοι νυκτος μεθυουσιν
1 Thessalonians 5:7 For they that sleep sleep in the night; and they that be drunken are drunken in the night.
1 Thessalonians 5:8 ημεις δε ημερας οντες νηφωμεν ενδυσαμενοι θωρακα πιστεως και αγαπης και περικεφαλαιαν ελπιδα σωτηριας
1 Thessalonians 5:8 But let us, who are of the day, be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love; and for an helmet, the hope of salvation.
1 Thessalonians 5:9 οτι ουκ εθετο ημας ο θεος εις οργην αλλ εις περιποιησιν σωτηριας δια του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου
1 Thessalonians 5:9 For God hath not appointed us to wrath, but to obtain salvation by our Lord Jesus Christ,
1 Thessalonians 5:10 του αποθανοντος υπερ ημων ινα ειτε γρηγορωμεν ειτε καθευδωμεν αμα συν αυτω ζησωμεν
1 Thessalonians 5:10 Who died for us, that, whether we wake or sleep, we should live together with him.
1 Thessalonians 5:11 διο παρακαλειτε αλληλους και οικοδομειτε εις τον ενα καθως και ποιειτε
1 Thessalonians 5:11 Wherefore comfort yourselves together, and edify one another, even as also ye do.
1 Thessalonians 5:12 ερωτωμεν δε υμας αδελφοι ειδεναι τους κοπιωντας εν υμιν και προισταμενους υμων εν κυριω και νουθετουντας υμας
1 Thessalonians 5:12 And we beseech you, brethren, to know them which labour among you, and are over you in the Lord, and admonish you;
1 Thessalonians 5:13 και ηγεισθαι αυτους υπερ εκπερισσου εν αγαπη δια το εργον αυτων ειρηνευετε εν εαυτοις
1 Thessalonians 5:13 And to esteem them very highly in love for their work's sake.  And be at peace among yourselves.
1 Thessalonians 5:14 παρακαλουμεν δε υμας αδελφοι νουθετειτε τους ατακτους παραμυθεισθε τους ολιγοψυχους αντεχεσθε των ασθενων μακροθυμειτε προς παντας
1 Thessalonians 5:14 Now we exhort you, brethren, warn them that are unruly, comfort the feebleminded, support the weak, be patient toward all men.
1 Thessalonians 5:15 ορατε μη τις κακον αντι κακου τινι αποδω αλλα παντοτε το αγαθον διωκετε και εις αλληλους και εις παντας
1 Thessalonians 5:15 See that none render evil for evil unto any man; but ever follow that which is good, both among yourselves, and to all men.
1 Thessalonians 5:16 παντοτε χαιρετε
1 Thessalonians 5:16 Rejoice evermore.
1 Thessalonians 5:17 αδιαλειπτως προσευχεσθε
1 Thessalonians 5:17 Pray without ceasing.
1 Thessalonians 5:18 εν παντι ευχαριστειτε τουτο γαρ θελημα θεου εν χριστω ιησου εις υμας
1 Thessalonians 5:18 In every thing give thanks: for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you.
1 Thessalonians 5:19 το πνευμα μη σβεννυτε
1 Thessalonians 5:19 Quench not the Spirit.
1 Thessalonians 5:20 προφητειας μη εξουθενειτε
1 Thessalonians 5:20 Despise not prophesyings.
1 Thessalonians 5:21 παντα δοκιμαζετε το καλον κατεχετε
1 Thessalonians 5:21 Prove all things; hold fast that which is good.
1 Thessalonians 5:22 απο παντος ειδους πονηρου απεχεσθε
1 Thessalonians 5:22 Abstain from all appearance of evil.
1 Thessalonians 5:23 αυτος δε ο θεος της ειρηνης αγιασαι υμας ολοτελεις και ολοκληρον υμων το πνευμα και η ψυχη και το σωμα αμεμπτως εν τη παρουσια του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου τηρηθειη
1 Thessalonians 5:23 And the very God of peace sanctify you wholly; and I pray God your whole spirit and soul and body be preserved blameless unto the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.
1 Thessalonians 5:24 πιστος ο καλων υμας ος και ποιησει
1 Thessalonians 5:24 Faithful is he that calleth you, who also will do it.
1 Thessalonians 5:25 αδελφοι προσευχεσθε περι ημων
1 Thessalonians 5:25 Brethren, pray for us.
1 Thessalonians 5:26 ασπασασθε τους αδελφους παντας εν φιληματι αγιω
1 Thessalonians 5:26 Greet all the brethren with an holy kiss.
1 Thessalonians 5:27 ορκιζω υμας τον κυριον αναγνωσθηναι την επιστολην πασιν τοις αγιοις αδελφοις
1 Thessalonians 5:27 I charge you by the Lord that this epistle be read unto all the holy brethren.
1 Thessalonians 5:28 η χαρις του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου μεθ υμων αμην [προς θεσσαλονικεις πρωτη εγραφη απο αθηνων]
1 Thessalonians 5:28 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen.
2 Thessalonians 1:1 παυλος και σιλουανος και τιμοθεος τη εκκλησια θεσσαλονικεων εν θεω πατρι ημων και κυριω ιησου χριστω
2 Thessalonians 1:1 Paul, and Silvanus, and Timotheus, unto the church of the Thessalonians in God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ:
2 Thessalonians 1:2 χαρις υμιν και ειρηνη απο θεου πατρος ημων και κυριου ιησου χριστου
2 Thessalonians 1:2 Grace unto you, and peace, from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
2 Thessalonians 1:3 ευχαριστειν οφειλομεν τω θεω παντοτε περι υμων αδελφοι καθως αξιον εστιν οτι υπεραυξανει η πιστις υμων και πλεοναζει η αγαπη ενος εκαστου παντων υμων εις αλληλους
2 Thessalonians 1:3 We are bound to thank God always for you, brethren, as it is meet, because that your faith groweth exceedingly, and the charity of every one of you all toward each other aboundeth;
2 Thessalonians 1:4 ωστε ημας αυτους εν υμιν καυχασθαι εν ταις εκκλησιαις του θεου υπερ της υπομονης υμων και πιστεως εν πασιν τοις διωγμοις υμων και ταις θλιψεσιν αις ανεχεσθε
2 Thessalonians 1:4 So that we ourselves glory in you in the churches of God for your patience and faith in all your persecutions and tribulations that ye endure:
2 Thessalonians 1:5 ενδειγμα της δικαιας κρισεως του θεου εις το καταξιωθηναι υμας της βασιλειας του θεου υπερ ης και πασχετε
2 Thessalonians 1:5 Which is a manifest token of the righteous judgment of God, that ye may be counted worthy of the kingdom of God, for which ye also suffer:
2 Thessalonians 1:6 ειπερ δικαιον παρα θεω ανταποδουναι τοις θλιβουσιν υμας θλιψιν
2 Thessalonians 1:6 Seeing it is a righteous thing with God to recompense tribulation to them that trouble you;
2 Thessalonians 1:7 και υμιν τοις θλιβομενοις ανεσιν μεθ ημων εν τη αποκαλυψει του κυριου ιησου απ ουρανου μετ αγγελων δυναμεως αυτου
2 Thessalonians 1:7 And to you who are troubled rest with us, when the Lord Jesus shall be revealed from heaven with his mighty angels,
2 Thessalonians 1:8 εν πυρι φλογος διδοντος εκδικησιν τοις μη ειδοσιν θεον και τοις μη υπακουουσιν τω ευαγγελιω του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου
2 Thessalonians 1:8 In flaming fire taking vengeance on them that know not God, and that obey not the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ:
2 Thessalonians 1:9 οιτινες δικην τισουσιν ολεθρον αιωνιον απο προσωπου του κυριου και απο της δοξης της ισχυος αυτου
2 Thessalonians 1:9 Who shall be punished with everlasting destruction from the presence of the Lord, and from the glory of his power;
2 Thessalonians 1:10 οταν ελθη ενδοξασθηναι εν τοις αγιοις αυτου και θαυμασθηναι εν πασιν τοις πιστευουσιν οτι επιστευθη το μαρτυριον ημων εφ υμας εν τη ημερα εκεινη
2 Thessalonians 1:10 When he shall come to be glorified in his saints, and to be admired in all them that believe (because our testimony among you was believed) in that day.
2 Thessalonians 1:11 εις ο και προσευχομεθα παντοτε περι υμων ινα υμας αξιωση της κλησεως ο θεος ημων και πληρωση πασαν ευδοκιαν αγαθωσυνης και εργον πιστεως εν δυναμει
2 Thessalonians 1:11 Wherefore also we pray always for you, that our God would count you worthy of this calling, and fulfil all the good pleasure of his goodness, and the work of faith with power:
2 Thessalonians 1:12 οπως ενδοξασθη το ονομα του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου εν υμιν και υμεις εν αυτω κατα την χαριν του θεου ημων και κυριου ιησου χριστου
2 Thessalonians 1:12 That the name of our Lord Jesus Christ may be glorified in you, and ye in him, according to the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ.
2 Thessalonians 2:1 ερωτωμεν δε υμας αδελφοι υπερ της παρουσιας του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου και ημων επισυναγωγης επ αυτον
2 Thessalonians 2:1 Now we beseech you, brethren, by the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, and by our gathering together unto him,
2 Thessalonians 2:2 εις το μη ταχεως σαλευθηναι υμας απο του νοος μητε θροεισθαι μητε δια πνευματος μητε δια λογου μητε δι επιστολης ως δι ημων ως οτι ενεστηκεν η ημερα του χριστου
2 Thessalonians 2:2 That ye be not soon shaken in mind, or be troubled, neither by spirit, nor by word, nor by letter as from us, as that the day of Christ is at hand.
2 Thessalonians 2:3 μη τις υμας εξαπατηση κατα μηδενα τροπον οτι εαν μη ελθη η αποστασια πρωτον και αποκαλυφθη ο ανθρωπος της αμαρτιας ο υιος της απωλειας
2 Thessalonians 2:3 Let no man deceive you by any means: for that day shall not come, except there come a falling away first, and that man of sin be revealed, the son of perdition;
2 Thessalonians 2:4 ο αντικειμενος και υπεραιρομενος επι παντα λεγομενον θεον η σεβασμα ωστε αυτον εις τον ναον του θεου ως θεον καθισαι αποδεικνυντα εαυτον οτι εστιν θεος
2 Thessalonians 2:4 Who opposeth and exalteth himself above all that is called God, or that is worshipped; so that he as God sitteth in the temple of God, shewing himself that he is God.
2 Thessalonians 2:5 ου μνημονευετε οτι ετι ων προς υμας ταυτα ελεγον υμιν
2 Thessalonians 2:5 Remember ye not, that, when I was yet with you, I told you these things?
2 Thessalonians 2:6 και νυν το κατεχον οιδατε εις το αποκαλυφθηναι αυτον εν τω εαυτου καιρω
2 Thessalonians 2:6 And now ye know what withholdeth that he might be revealed in his time.
2 Thessalonians 2:7 το γαρ μυστηριον ηδη ενεργειται της ανομιας μονον ο κατεχων αρτι εως εκ μεσου γενηται
2 Thessalonians 2:7 For the mystery of iniquity doth already work: only he who now letteth will let, until he be taken out of the way.
2 Thessalonians 2:8 και τοτε αποκαλυφθησεται ο ανομος ον ο κυριος αναλωσει τω πνευματι του στοματος αυτου και καταργησει τη επιφανεια της παρουσιας αυτου
2 Thessalonians 2:8 And then shall that Wicked be revealed, whom the Lord shall consume with the spirit of his mouth, and shall destroy with the brightness of his coming:
2 Thessalonians 2:9 ου εστιν η παρουσια κατ ενεργειαν του σατανα εν παση δυναμει και σημειοις και τερασιν ψευδους
2 Thessalonians 2:9 Even him, whose coming is after the working of Satan with all power and signs and lying wonders,
2 Thessalonians 2:10 και εν παση απατη της αδικιας εν τοις απολλυμενοις ανθ ων την αγαπην της αληθειας ουκ εδεξαντο εις το σωθηναι αυτους
2 Thessalonians 2:10 And with all deceivableness of unrighteousness in them that perish; because they received not the love of the truth, that they might be saved.
2 Thessalonians 2:11 και δια τουτο πεμψει αυτοις ο θεος ενεργειαν πλανης εις το πιστευσαι αυτους τω ψευδει
2 Thessalonians 2:11 And for this cause God shall send them strong delusion, that they should believe a lie:
2 Thessalonians 2:12 ινα κριθωσιν παντες οι μη πιστευσαντες τη αληθεια αλλ ευδοκησαντες εν τη αδικια
2 Thessalonians 2:12 That they all might be damned who believed not the truth, but had pleasure in unrighteousness.
2 Thessalonians 2:13 ημεις δε οφειλομεν ευχαριστειν τω θεω παντοτε περι υμων αδελφοι ηγαπημενοι υπο κυριου οτι ειλετο υμας ο θεος απ αρχης εις σωτηριαν εν αγιασμω πνευματος και πιστει αληθειας
2 Thessalonians 2:13 But we are bound to give thanks alway to God for you, brethren beloved of the Lord, because God hath from the beginning chosen you to salvation through sanctification of the Spirit and belief of the truth:
2 Thessalonians 2:14 εις ο εκαλεσεν υμας δια του ευαγγελιου ημων εις περιποιησιν δοξης του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου
2 Thessalonians 2:14 Whereunto he called you by our gospel, to the obtaining of the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ.
2 Thessalonians 2:15 αρα ουν αδελφοι στηκετε και κρατειτε τας παραδοσεις ας εδιδαχθητε ειτε δια λογου ειτε δι επιστολης ημων
2 Thessalonians 2:15 Therefore, brethren, stand fast, and hold the traditions which ye have been taught, whether by word, or our epistle.
2 Thessalonians 2:16 αυτος δε ο κυριος ημων ιησους χριστος και ο θεος και πατηρ ημων ο αγαπησας ημας και δους παρακλησιν αιωνιαν και ελπιδα αγαθην εν χαριτι
2 Thessalonians 2:16 Now our Lord Jesus Christ himself, and God, even our Father, which hath loved us, and hath given us everlasting consolation and good hope through grace,
2 Thessalonians 2:17 παρακαλεσαι υμων τας καρδιας και στηριξαι υμας εν παντι λογω και εργω αγαθω
2 Thessalonians 2:17 Comfort your hearts, and stablish you in every good word and work.
2 Thessalonians 3:1 το λοιπον προσευχεσθε αδελφοι περι ημων ινα ο λογος του κυριου τρεχη και δοξαζηται καθως και προς υμας
2 Thessalonians 3:1 Finally, brethren, pray for us, that the word of the Lord may have free course, and be glorified, even as it is with you:
2 Thessalonians 3:2 και ινα ρυσθωμεν απο των ατοπων και πονηρων ανθρωπων ου γαρ παντων η πιστις
2 Thessalonians 3:2 And that we may be delivered from unreasonable and wicked men: for all men have not faith.
2 Thessalonians 3:3 πιστος δε εστιν ο κυριος ος στηριξει υμας και φυλαξει απο του πονηρου
2 Thessalonians 3:3 But the Lord is faithful, who shall stablish you, and keep you from evil.
2 Thessalonians 3:4 πεποιθαμεν δε εν κυριω εφ υμας οτι α παραγγελλομεν υμιν και ποιειτε και ποιησετε
2 Thessalonians 3:4 And we have confidence in the Lord touching you, that ye both do and will do the things which we command you.
2 Thessalonians 3:5 ο δε κυριος κατευθυναι υμων τας καρδιας εις την αγαπην του θεου και εις υπομονην του χριστου
2 Thessalonians 3:5 And the Lord direct your hearts into the love of God, and into the patient waiting for Christ.
2 Thessalonians 3:6 παραγγελλομεν δε υμιν αδελφοι εν ονοματι του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου στελλεσθαι υμας απο παντος αδελφου ατακτως περιπατουντος και μη κατα την παραδοσιν ην παρελαβεν παρ ημων
2 Thessalonians 3:6 Now we command you, brethren, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that ye withdraw yourselves from every brother that walketh disorderly, and not after the tradition which he received of us.
2 Thessalonians 3:7 αυτοι γαρ οιδατε πως δει μιμεισθαι ημας οτι ουκ ητακτησαμεν εν υμιν
2 Thessalonians 3:7 For yourselves know how ye ought to follow us: for we behaved not ourselves disorderly among you;
2 Thessalonians 3:8 ουδε δωρεαν αρτον εφαγομεν παρα τινος αλλ εν κοπω και μοχθω νυκτα και ημεραν εργαζομενοι προς το μη επιβαρησαι τινα υμων
2 Thessalonians 3:8 Neither did we eat any man's bread for nought; but wrought with labour and travail night and day, that we might not be chargeable to any of you:
2 Thessalonians 3:9 ουχ οτι ουκ εχομεν εξουσιαν αλλ ινα εαυτους τυπον δωμεν υμιν εις το μιμεισθαι ημας
2 Thessalonians 3:9 Not because we have not power, but to make ourselves an ensample unto you to follow us.
2 Thessalonians 3:10 και γαρ οτε ημεν προς υμας τουτο παρηγγελλομεν υμιν οτι ει τις ου θελει εργαζεσθαι μηδε εσθιετω
2 Thessalonians 3:10 For even when we were with you, this we commanded you, that if any would not work, neither should he eat.
2 Thessalonians 3:11 ακουομεν γαρ τινας περιπατουντας εν υμιν ατακτως μηδεν εργαζομενους αλλα περιεργαζομενους
2 Thessalonians 3:11 For we hear that there are some which walk among you disorderly, working not at all, but are busybodies.
2 Thessalonians 3:12 τοις δε τοιουτοις παραγγελλομεν και παρακαλουμεν δια του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου ινα μετα ησυχιας εργαζομενοι τον εαυτων αρτον εσθιωσιν
2 Thessalonians 3:12 Now them that are such we command and exhort by our Lord Jesus Christ, that with quietness they work, and eat their own bread.
2 Thessalonians 3:13 υμεις δε αδελφοι μη εκκακησητε καλοποιουντες
2 Thessalonians 3:13 But ye, brethren, be not weary in well doing.
2 Thessalonians 3:14 ει δε τις ουχ υπακουει τω λογω ημων δια της επιστολης τουτον σημειουσθε και μη συναναμιγνυσθε αυτω ινα εντραπη
2 Thessalonians 3:14 And if any man obey not our word by this epistle, note that man, and have no company with him, that he may be ashamed.
2 Thessalonians 3:15 και μη ως εχθρον ηγεισθε αλλα νουθετειτε ως αδελφον
2 Thessalonians 3:15 Yet count him not as an enemy, but admonish him as a brother.
2 Thessalonians 3:16 αυτος δε ο κυριος της ειρηνης δωη υμιν την ειρηνην δια παντος εν παντι τροπω ο κυριος μετα παντων υμων
2 Thessalonians 3:16 Now the Lord of peace himself give you peace always by all means. The Lord be with you all.
2 Thessalonians 3:17 ο ασπασμος τη εμη χειρι παυλου ο εστιν σημειον εν παση επιστολη ουτως γραφω
2 Thessalonians 3:17 The salutation of Paul with mine own hand, which is the token in every epistle: so I write.
2 Thessalonians 3:18 η χαρις του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου μετα παντων υμων αμην [προς θεσσαλονικεις δευτερα εγραφη απο αθηνων]
2 Thessalonians 3:18 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.
1 Timothy 1:1 παυλος αποστολος ιησου χριστου κατ επιταγην θεου σωτηρος ημων και κυριου ιησου χριστου της ελπιδος ημων
1 Timothy 1:1 Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the commandment of God our Saviour, and Lord Jesus Christ, which is our hope;
1 Timothy 1:2 τιμοθεω γνησιω τεκνω εν πιστει χαρις ελεος ειρηνη απο θεου πατρος ημων και χριστου ιησου του κυριου ημων
1 Timothy 1:2 Unto Timothy, my own son in the faith: Grace, mercy, and peace, from God our Father and Jesus Christ our Lord.
1 Timothy 1:3 καθως παρεκαλεσα σε προσμειναι εν εφεσω πορευομενος εις μακεδονιαν ινα παραγγειλης τισιν μη ετεροδιδασκαλειν
1 Timothy 1:3 As I besought thee to abide still at Ephesus, when I went into Macedonia, that thou mightest charge some that they teach no other doctrine,
1 Timothy 1:4 μηδε προσεχειν μυθοις και γενεαλογιαις απεραντοις αιτινες ζητησεις παρεχουσιν μαλλον η οικονομιαν θεου την εν πιστει
1 Timothy 1:4 Neither give heed to fables and endless genealogies, which minister questions, rather than godly edifying which is in faith: so do.
1 Timothy 1:5 το δε τελος της παραγγελιας εστιν αγαπη εκ καθαρας καρδιας και συνειδησεως αγαθης και πιστεως ανυποκριτου
1 Timothy 1:5 Now the end of the commandment is charity out of a pure heart, and of a good conscience, and of faith unfeigned:
1 Timothy 1:6 ων τινες αστοχησαντες εξετραπησαν εις ματαιολογιαν
1 Timothy 1:6 From which some having swerved have turned aside unto vain jangling;
1 Timothy 1:7 θελοντες ειναι νομοδιδασκαλοι μη νοουντες μητε α λεγουσιν μητε περι τινων διαβεβαιουνται
1 Timothy 1:7 Desiring to be teachers of the law; understanding neither what they say, nor whereof they affirm.
1 Timothy 1:8 οιδαμεν δε οτι καλος ο νομος εαν τις αυτω νομιμως χρηται
1 Timothy 1:8 But we know that the law is good, if a man use it lawfully;
1 Timothy 1:9 ειδως τουτο οτι δικαιω νομος ου κειται ανομοις δε και ανυποτακτοις ασεβεσιν και αμαρτωλοις ανοσιοις και βεβηλοις πατραλωαις και μητραλωαις ανδροφονοις
1 Timothy 1:9 Knowing this, that the law is not made for a righteous man, but for the lawless and disobedient, for the ungodly and for sinners, for unholy and profane, for murderers of fathers and murderers of mothers, for manslayers,
1 Timothy 1:10 πορνοις αρσενοκοιταις ανδραποδισταις ψευσταις επιορκοις και ει τι ετερον τη υγιαινουση διδασκαλια αντικειται
1 Timothy 1:10 For whoremongers, for them that defile themselves with mankind, for menstealers, for liars, for perjured persons, and if there be any other thing that is contrary to sound doctrine;
1 Timothy 1:11 κατα το ευαγγελιον της δοξης του μακαριου θεου ο επιστευθην εγω
1 Timothy 1:11 According to the glorious gospel of the blessed God, which was committed to my trust.
1 Timothy 1:12 και χαριν εχω τω ενδυναμωσαντι με χριστω ιησου τω κυριω ημων οτι πιστον με ηγησατο θεμενος εις διακονιαν
1 Timothy 1:12 And I thank Christ Jesus our Lord, who hath enabled me, for that he counted me faithful, putting me into the ministry;
1 Timothy 1:13 τον προτερον οντα βλασφημον και διωκτην και υβριστην αλλ ηλεηθην οτι αγνοων εποιησα εν απιστια
1 Timothy 1:13 Who was before a blasphemer, and a persecutor, and injurious: but I obtained mercy, because I did it ignorantly in unbelief.
1 Timothy 1:14 υπερεπλεονασεν δε η χαρις του κυριου ημων μετα πιστεως και αγαπης της εν χριστω ιησου
1 Timothy 1:14 And the grace of our Lord was exceeding abundant with faith and love which is in Christ Jesus.
1 Timothy 1:15 πιστος ο λογος και πασης αποδοχης αξιος οτι χριστος ιησους ηλθεν εις τον κοσμον αμαρτωλους σωσαι ων πρωτος ειμι εγω
1 Timothy 1:15 This is a faithful saying, and worthy of all acceptation, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners; of whom I am chief.
1 Timothy 1:16 αλλα δια τουτο ηλεηθην ινα εν εμοι πρωτω ενδειξηται ιησους χριστος την πασαν μακροθυμιαν προς υποτυπωσιν των μελλοντων πιστευειν επ αυτω εις ζωην αιωνιον
1 Timothy 1:16 Howbeit for this cause I obtained mercy, that in me first Jesus Christ might shew forth all longsuffering, for a pattern to them which should hereafter believe on him to life everlasting.
1 Timothy 1:17 τω δε βασιλει των αιωνων αφθαρτω αορατω μονω σοφω θεω τιμη και δοξα εις τους αιωνας των αιωνων αμην
1 Timothy 1:17 Now unto the King eternal, immortal, invisible, the only wise God, be honour and glory for ever and ever. Amen.
1 Timothy 1:18 ταυτην την παραγγελιαν παρατιθεμαι σοι τεκνον τιμοθεε κατα τας προαγουσας επι σε προφητειας ινα στρατευη εν αυταις την καλην στρατειαν
1 Timothy 1:18 This charge I commit unto thee, son Timothy, according to the prophecies which went before on thee, that thou by them mightest war a good warfare;
1 Timothy 1:19 εχων πιστιν και αγαθην συνειδησιν ην τινες απωσαμενοι περι την πιστιν εναυαγησαν
1 Timothy 1:19 Holding faith, and a good conscience; which some having put away concerning faith have made shipwreck:
1 Timothy 1:20 ων εστιν υμεναιος και αλεξανδρος ους παρεδωκα τω σατανα ινα παιδευθωσιν μη βλασφημειν
1 Timothy 1:20 Of whom is Hymenaeus and Alexander; whom I have delivered unto Satan, that they may learn not to blaspheme.
1 Timothy 2:1 παρακαλω ουν πρωτον παντων ποιεισθαι δεησεις προσευχας εντευξεις ευχαριστιας υπερ παντων ανθρωπων
1 Timothy 2:1 I exhort therefore, that, first of all, supplications, prayers, intercessions, and giving of thanks, be made for all men;
1 Timothy 2:2 υπερ βασιλεων και παντων των εν υπεροχη οντων ινα ηρεμον και ησυχιον βιον διαγωμεν εν παση ευσεβεια και σεμνοτητι
1 Timothy 2:2 For kings, and for all that are in authority; that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty.
1 Timothy 2:3 τουτο γαρ καλον και αποδεκτον ενωπιον του σωτηρος ημων θεου
1 Timothy 2:3 For this is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Saviour;
1 Timothy 2:4 ος παντας ανθρωπους θελει σωθηναι και εις επιγνωσιν αληθειας ελθειν
1 Timothy 2:4 Who will have all men to be saved, and to come unto the knowledge of the truth.
1 Timothy 2:5 εις γαρ θεος εις και μεσιτης θεου και ανθρωπων ανθρωπος χριστος ιησους
1 Timothy 2:5 For there is one God, and one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus;
1 Timothy 2:6 ο δους εαυτον αντιλυτρον υπερ παντων το μαρτυριον καιροις ιδιοις
1 Timothy 2:6 Who gave himself a ransom for all, to be testified in due time.
1 Timothy 2:7 εις ο ετεθην εγω κηρυξ και αποστολος αληθειαν λεγω εν χριστω ου ψευδομαι διδασκαλος εθνων εν πιστει και αληθεια
1 Timothy 2:7 Whereunto I am ordained a preacher, and an apostle, (I speak the truth in Christ, and lie not;) a teacher of the Gentiles in faith and verity.
1 Timothy 2:8 βουλομαι ουν προσευχεσθαι τους ανδρας εν παντι τοπω επαιροντας οσιους χειρας χωρις οργης και διαλογισμου
1 Timothy 2:8 I will therefore that men pray every where, lifting up holy hands, without wrath and doubting.
1 Timothy 2:9 ωσαυτως και τας γυναικας εν καταστολη κοσμιω μετα αιδους και σωφροσυνης κοσμειν εαυτας μη εν πλεγμασιν η χρυσω η μαργαριταις η ιματισμω πολυτελει
1 Timothy 2:9 In like manner also, that women adorn themselves in modest apparel, with shamefacedness and sobriety; not with broided hair, or gold, or pearls, or costly array;
1 Timothy 2:10 αλλ ο πρεπει γυναιξιν επαγγελλομεναις θεοσεβειαν δι εργων αγαθων
1 Timothy 2:10 But (which becometh women professing godliness) with good works.
1 Timothy 2:11 γυνη εν ησυχια μανθανετω εν παση υποταγη
1 Timothy 2:11 Let the woman learn in silence with all subjection.
1 Timothy 2:12 γυναικι δε διδασκειν ουκ επιτρεπω ουδε αυθεντειν ανδρος αλλ ειναι εν ησυχια
1 Timothy 2:12 But I suffer not a woman to teach, nor to usurp authority over the man, but to be in silence.
1 Timothy 2:13 αδαμ γαρ πρωτος επλασθη ειτα ευα
1 Timothy 2:13 For Adam was first formed, then Eve.
1 Timothy 2:14 και αδαμ ουκ ηπατηθη η δε γυνη απατηθεισα εν παραβασει γεγονεν
1 Timothy 2:14 And Adam was not deceived, but the woman being deceived was in the transgression.
1 Timothy 2:15 σωθησεται δε δια της τεκνογονιας εαν μεινωσιν εν πιστει και αγαπη και αγιασμω μετα σωφροσυνης
1 Timothy 2:15 Notwithstanding she shall be saved in childbearing, if they continue in faith and charity and holiness with sobriety.
1 Timothy 3:1 πιστος ο λογος ει τις επισκοπης ορεγεται καλου εργου επιθυμει
1 Timothy 3:1 This is a true saying, If a man desire the office of a bishop, he desireth a good work.
1 Timothy 3:2 δει ουν τον επισκοπον ανεπιληπτον ειναι μιας γυναικος ανδρα νηφαλεον σωφρονα κοσμιον φιλοξενον διδακτικον
1 Timothy 3:2 A bishop then must be blameless, the husband of one wife, vigilant, sober, of good behaviour, given to hospitality, apt to teach;
1 Timothy 3:3 μη παροινον μη πληκτην μη αισχροκερδη αλλ επιεικη αμαχον αφιλαργυρον
1 Timothy 3:3 Not given to wine, no striker, not greedy of filthy lucre; but patient, not a brawler, not covetous;
1 Timothy 3:4 του ιδιου οικου καλως προισταμενον τεκνα εχοντα εν υποταγη μετα πασης σεμνοτητος
1 Timothy 3:4 One that ruleth well his own house, having his children in subjection with all gravity;
1 Timothy 3:5 ει δε τις του ιδιου οικου προστηναι ουκ οιδεν πως εκκλησιας θεου επιμελησεται
1 Timothy 3:5 (For if a man know not how to rule his own house, how shall he take care of the church of God?)
1 Timothy 3:6 μη νεοφυτον ινα μη τυφωθεις εις κριμα εμπεση του διαβολου
1 Timothy 3:6 Not a novice, lest being lifted up with pride he fall into the condemnation of the devil.
1 Timothy 3:7 δει δε αυτον και μαρτυριαν καλην εχειν απο των εξωθεν ινα μη εις ονειδισμον εμπεση και παγιδα του διαβολου
1 Timothy 3:7 Moreover he must have a good report of them which are without; lest he fall into reproach and the snare of the devil.
1 Timothy 3:8 διακονους ωσαυτως σεμνους μη διλογους μη οινω πολλω προσεχοντας μη αισχροκερδεις
1 Timothy 3:8 Likewise must the deacons be grave, not doubletongued, not given to much wine, not greedy of filthy lucre;
1 Timothy 3:9 εχοντας το μυστηριον της πιστεως εν καθαρα συνειδησει
1 Timothy 3:9 Holding the mystery of the faith in a pure conscience.
1 Timothy 3:10 και ουτοι δε δοκιμαζεσθωσαν πρωτον ειτα διακονειτωσαν ανεγκλητοι οντες
1 Timothy 3:10 And let these also first be proved; then let them use the office of a deacon, being found blameless.
1 Timothy 3:11 γυναικας ωσαυτως σεμνας μη διαβολους νηφαλεους πιστας εν πασιν
1 Timothy 3:11 Even so must their wives be grave, not slanderers, sober, faithful in all things.
1 Timothy 3:12 διακονοι εστωσαν μιας γυναικος ανδρες τεκνων καλως προισταμενοι και των ιδιων οικων
1 Timothy 3:12 Let the deacons be the husbands of one wife, ruling their children and their own houses well.
1 Timothy 3:13 οι γαρ καλως διακονησαντες βαθμον εαυτοις καλον περιποιουνται και πολλην παρρησιαν εν πιστει τη εν χριστω ιησου
1 Timothy 3:13 For they that have used the office of a deacon well purchase to themselves a good degree, and great boldness in the faith which is in Christ Jesus.
1 Timothy 3:14 ταυτα σοι γραφω ελπιζων ελθειν προς σε ταχιον
1 Timothy 3:14 These things write I unto thee, hoping to come unto thee shortly:
1 Timothy 3:15 εαν δε βραδυνω ινα ειδης πως δει εν οικω θεου αναστρεφεσθαι ητις εστιν εκκλησια θεου ζωντος στυλος και εδραιωμα της αληθειας
1 Timothy 3:15 But if I tarry long, that thou mayest know how thou oughtest to behave thyself in the house of God, which is the church of the living God, the pillar and ground of the truth.
1 Timothy 3:16 και ομολογουμενως μεγα εστιν το της ευσεβειας μυστηριον θεος εφανερωθη εν σαρκι εδικαιωθη εν πνευματι ωφθη αγγελοις εκηρυχθη εν εθνεσιν επιστευθη εν κοσμω ανεληφθη εν δοξη
1 Timothy 3:16 And without controversy great is the mystery of godliness: God was manifest in the flesh, justified in the Spirit, seen of angels, preached unto the Gentiles, believed on in the world, received up into glory.
1 Timothy 4:1 το δε πνευμα ρητως λεγει οτι εν υστεροις καιροις αποστησονται τινες της πιστεως προσεχοντες πνευμασιν πλανοις και διδασκαλιαις δαιμονιων
1 Timothy 4:1 Now the Spirit speaketh expressly, that in the latter times some shall depart from the faith, giving heed to seducing spirits, and doctrines of devils;
1 Timothy 4:2 εν υποκρισει ψευδολογων κεκαυτηριασμενων την ιδιαν συνειδησιν
1 Timothy 4:2 Speaking lies in hypocrisy; having their conscience seared with a hot iron;
1 Timothy 4:3 κωλυοντων γαμειν απεχεσθαι βρωματων α ο θεος εκτισεν εις μεταληψιν μετα ευχαριστιας τοις πιστοις και επεγνωκοσιν την αληθειαν
1 Timothy 4:3 Forbidding to marry, and commanding to abstain from meats, which God hath created to be received with thanksgiving of them which believe and know the truth.
1 Timothy 4:4 οτι παν κτισμα θεου καλον και ουδεν αποβλητον μετα ευχαριστιας λαμβανομενον
1 Timothy 4:4 For every creature of God is good, and nothing to be refused, if it be received with thanksgiving:
1 Timothy 4:5 αγιαζεται γαρ δια λογου θεου και εντευξεως
1 Timothy 4:5 For it is sanctified by the word of God and prayer.
1 Timothy 4:6 ταυτα υποτιθεμενος τοις αδελφοις καλος εση διακονος ιησου χριστου εντρεφομενος τοις λογοις της πιστεως και της καλης διδασκαλιας η παρηκολουθηκας
1 Timothy 4:6 If thou put the brethren in remembrance of these things, thou shalt be a good minister of Jesus Christ, nourished up in the words of faith and of good doctrine, whereunto thou hast attained.
1 Timothy 4:7 τους δε βεβηλους και γραωδεις μυθους παραιτου γυμναζε δε σεαυτον προς ευσεβειαν
1 Timothy 4:7 But refuse profane and old wives' fables, and exercise thyself rather unto godliness.
1 Timothy 4:8 η γαρ σωματικη γυμνασια προς ολιγον εστιν ωφελιμος η δε ευσεβεια προς παντα ωφελιμος εστιν επαγγελιαν εχουσα ζωης της νυν και της μελλουσης
1 Timothy 4:8 For bodily exercise profiteth little: but godliness is profitable unto all things, having promise of the life that now is, and of that which is to come.
1 Timothy 4:9 πιστος ο λογος και πασης αποδοχης αξιος
1 Timothy 4:9 This is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptation.
1 Timothy 4:10 εις τουτο γαρ και κοπιωμεν και ονειδιζομεθα οτι ηλπικαμεν επι θεω ζωντι ος εστιν σωτηρ παντων ανθρωπων μαλιστα πιστων
1 Timothy 4:10 For therefore we both labour and suffer reproach, because we trust in the living God, who is the Saviour of all men, specially of those that believe.
1 Timothy 4:11 παραγγελλε ταυτα και διδασκε
1 Timothy 4:11 These things command and teach.
1 Timothy 4:12 μηδεις σου της νεοτητος καταφρονειτω αλλα τυπος γινου των πιστων εν λογω εν αναστροφη εν αγαπη εν πνευματι εν πιστει εν αγνεια
1 Timothy 4:12 Let no man despise thy youth; but be thou an example of the believers, in word, in conversation, in charity, in spirit, in faith, in purity.
1 Timothy 4:13 εως ερχομαι προσεχε τη αναγνωσει τη παρακλησει τη διδασκαλια
1 Timothy 4:13 Till I come, give attendance to reading, to exhortation, to doctrine.
1 Timothy 4:14 μη αμελει του εν σοι χαρισματος ο εδοθη σοι δια προφητειας μετα επιθεσεως των χειρων του πρεσβυτεριου
1 Timothy 4:14 Neglect not the gift that is in thee, which was given thee by prophecy, with the laying on of the hands of the presbytery.
1 Timothy 4:15 ταυτα μελετα εν τουτοις ισθι ινα σου η προκοπη φανερα η εν πασιν
1 Timothy 4:15 Meditate upon these things; give thyself wholly to them; that thy profiting may appear to all.
1 Timothy 4:16 επεχε σεαυτω και τη διδασκαλια επιμενε αυτοις τουτο γαρ ποιων και σεαυτον σωσεις και τους ακουοντας σου
1 Timothy 4:16 Take heed unto thyself, and unto the doctrine; continue in them: for in doing this thou shalt both save thyself, and them that hear thee.
1 Timothy 5:1 πρεσβυτερω μη επιπληξης αλλα παρακαλει ως πατερα νεωτερους ως αδελφους
1 Timothy 5:1 Rebuke not an elder, but intreat him as a father; and the younger men as brethren;
1 Timothy 5:2 πρεσβυτερας ως μητερας νεωτερας ως αδελφας εν παση αγνεια
1 Timothy 5:2 The elder women as mothers; the younger as sisters, with all purity.
1 Timothy 5:3 χηρας τιμα τας οντως χηρας
1 Timothy 5:3 Honour widows that are widows indeed.
1 Timothy 5:4 ει δε τις χηρα τεκνα η εκγονα εχει μανθανετωσαν πρωτον τον ιδιον οικον ευσεβειν και αμοιβας αποδιδοναι τοις προγονοις τουτο γαρ εστιν καλον και αποδεκτον ενωπιον του θεου
1 Timothy 5:4 But if any widow have children or nephews, let them learn first to shew piety at home, and to requite their parents: for that is good and acceptable before God.
1 Timothy 5:5 η δε οντως χηρα και μεμονωμενη ηλπικεν επι τον θεον και προσμενει ταις δεησεσιν και ταις προσευχαις νυκτος και ημερας
1 Timothy 5:5 Now she that is a widow indeed, and desolate, trusteth in God, and continueth in supplications and prayers night and day.
1 Timothy 5:6 η δε σπαταλωσα ζωσα τεθνηκεν
1 Timothy 5:6 But she that liveth in pleasure is dead while she liveth.
1 Timothy 5:7 και ταυτα παραγγελλε ινα ανεπιληπτοι ωσιν
1 Timothy 5:7 And these things give in charge, that they may be blameless.
1 Timothy 5:8 ει δε τις των ιδιων και μαλιστα των οικειων ου προνοει την πιστιν ηρνηται και εστιν απιστου χειρων
1 Timothy 5:8 But if any provide not for his own, and specially for those of his own house, he hath denied the faith, and is worse than an infidel.
1 Timothy 5:9 χηρα καταλεγεσθω μη ελαττον ετων εξηκοντα γεγονυια ενος ανδρος γυνη
1 Timothy 5:9 Let not a widow be taken into the number under threescore years old, having been the wife of one man.
1 Timothy 5:10 εν εργοις καλοις μαρτυρουμενη ει ετεκνοτροφησεν ει εξενοδοχησεν ει αγιων ποδας ενιψεν ει θλιβομενοις επηρκεσεν ει παντι εργω αγαθω επηκολουθησεν
1 Timothy 5:10 Well reported of for good works; if she have brought up children, if she have lodged strangers, if she have washed the saints' feet, if she have relieved the afflicted, if she have diligently followed every good work.
1 Timothy 5:11 νεωτερας δε χηρας παραιτου οταν γαρ καταστρηνιασωσιν του χριστου γαμειν θελουσιν
1 Timothy 5:11 But the younger widows refuse: for when they have begun to wax wanton against Christ, they will marry;
1 Timothy 5:12 εχουσαι κριμα οτι την πρωτην πιστιν ηθετησαν
1 Timothy 5:12 Having damnation, because they have cast off their first faith.
1 Timothy 5:13 αμα δε και αργαι μανθανουσιν περιερχομεναι τας οικιας ου μονον δε αργαι αλλα και φλυαροι και περιεργοι λαλουσαι τα μη δεοντα
1 Timothy 5:13 And withal they learn to be idle, wandering about from house to house; and not only idle, but tattlers also and busybodies, speaking things which they ought not.
1 Timothy 5:14 βουλομαι ουν νεωτερας γαμειν τεκνογονειν οικοδεσποτειν μηδεμιαν αφορμην διδοναι τω αντικειμενω λοιδοριας χαριν
1 Timothy 5:14 I will therefore that the younger women marry, bear children, guide the house, give none occasion to the adversary to speak reproachfully.
1 Timothy 5:15 ηδη γαρ τινες εξετραπησαν οπισω του σατανα
1 Timothy 5:15 For some are already turned aside after Satan.
1 Timothy 5:16 ει τις πιστος η πιστη εχει χηρας επαρκειτω αυταις και μη βαρεισθω η εκκλησια ινα ταις οντως χηραις επαρκεση
1 Timothy 5:16 If any man or woman that believeth have widows, let them relieve them, and let not the church be charged; that it may relieve them that are widows indeed.
1 Timothy 5:17 οι καλως προεστωτες πρεσβυτεροι διπλης τιμης αξιουσθωσαν μαλιστα οι κοπιωντες εν λογω και διδασκαλια
1 Timothy 5:17 Let the elders that rule well be counted worthy of double honour, especially they who labour in the word and doctrine.
1 Timothy 5:18 λεγει γαρ η γραφη βουν αλοωντα ου φιμωσεις και αξιος ο εργατης του μισθου αυτου
1 Timothy 5:18 For the scripture saith, Thou shalt not muzzle the ox that treadeth out the corn. And, The labourer is worthy of his reward.
1 Timothy 5:19 κατα πρεσβυτερου κατηγοριαν μη παραδεχου εκτος ει μη επι δυο η τριων μαρτυρων
1 Timothy 5:19 Against an elder receive not an accusation, but before two or three witnesses.
1 Timothy 5:20 τους αμαρτανοντας ενωπιον παντων ελεγχε ινα και οι λοιποι φοβον εχωσιν
1 Timothy 5:20 Them that sin rebuke before all, that others also may fear.
1 Timothy 5:21 διαμαρτυρομαι ενωπιον του θεου και κυριου ιησου χριστου και των εκλεκτων αγγελων ινα ταυτα φυλαξης χωρις προκριματος μηδεν ποιων κατα προσκλισιν
1 Timothy 5:21 I charge thee before God, and the Lord Jesus Christ, and the elect angels, that thou observe these things without preferring one before another, doing nothing by partiality.
1 Timothy 5:22 χειρας ταχεως μηδενι επιτιθει μηδε κοινωνει αμαρτιαις αλλοτριαις σεαυτον αγνον τηρει
1 Timothy 5:22 Lay hands suddenly on no man, neither be partaker of other men's sins: keep thyself pure.
1 Timothy 5:23 μηκετι υδροποτει αλλ οινω ολιγω χρω δια τον στομαχον σου και τας πυκνας σου ασθενειας
1 Timothy 5:23 Drink no longer water, but use a little wine for thy stomach's sake and thine often infirmities.
1 Timothy 5:24 τινων ανθρωπων αι αμαρτιαι προδηλοι εισιν προαγουσαι εις κρισιν τισιν δε και επακολουθουσιν
1 Timothy 5:24 Some men's sins are open beforehand, going before to judgment; and some men they follow after.
1 Timothy 5:25 ωσαυτως και τα καλα εργα προδηλα εστιν και τα αλλως εχοντα κρυβηναι ου δυναται
1 Timothy 5:25 Likewise also the good works of some are manifest beforehand; and they that are otherwise cannot be hid.
1 Timothy 6:1 οσοι εισιν υπο ζυγον δουλοι τους ιδιους δεσποτας πασης τιμης αξιους ηγεισθωσαν ινα μη το ονομα του θεου και η διδασκαλια βλασφημηται
1 Timothy 6:1 Let as many servants as are under the yoke count their own masters worthy of all honour, that the name of God and his doctrine be not blasphemed.
1 Timothy 6:2 οι δε πιστους εχοντες δεσποτας μη καταφρονειτωσαν οτι αδελφοι εισιν αλλα μαλλον δουλευετωσαν οτι πιστοι εισιν και αγαπητοι οι της ευεργεσιας αντιλαμβανομενοι ταυτα διδασκε και παρακαλει
1 Timothy 6:2 And they that have believing masters, let them not despise them, because they are brethren; but rather do them service, because they are faithful and beloved, partakers of the benefit. These things teach and exhort.
1 Timothy 6:3 ει τις ετεροδιδασκαλει και μη προσερχεται υγιαινουσιν λογοις τοις του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου και τη κατ ευσεβειαν διδασκαλια
1 Timothy 6:3 If any man teach otherwise, and consent not to wholesome words, even the words of our Lord Jesus Christ, and to the doctrine which is according to godliness;
1 Timothy 6:4 τετυφωται μηδεν επισταμενος αλλα νοσων περι ζητησεις και λογομαχιας εξ ων γινεται φθονος ερις βλασφημιαι υπονοιαι πονηραι
1 Timothy 6:4 He is proud, knowing nothing, but doting about questions and strifes of words, whereof cometh envy, strife, railings, evil surmisings,
1 Timothy 6:5 παραδιατριβαι διεφθαρμενων ανθρωπων τον νουν και απεστερημενων της αληθειας νομιζοντων πορισμον ειναι την ευσεβειαν αφιστασο απο των τοιουτων
1 Timothy 6:5 Perverse disputings of men of corrupt minds, and destitute of the truth, supposing that gain is godliness: from such withdraw thyself.
1 Timothy 6:6 εστιν δε πορισμος μεγας η ευσεβεια μετα αυταρκειας
1 Timothy 6:6 But godliness with contentment is great gain.
1 Timothy 6:7 ουδεν γαρ εισηνεγκαμεν εις τον κοσμον δηλον οτι ουδε εξενεγκειν τι δυναμεθα
1 Timothy 6:7 For we brought nothing into this world, and it is certain we can carry nothing out.
1 Timothy 6:8 εχοντες δε διατροφας και σκεπασματα τουτοις αρκεσθησομεθα
1 Timothy 6:8 And having food and raiment let us be therewith content.
1 Timothy 6:9 οι δε βουλομενοι πλουτειν εμπιπτουσιν εις πειρασμον και παγιδα και επιθυμιας πολλας ανοητους και βλαβερας αιτινες βυθιζουσιν τους ανθρωπους εις ολεθρον και απωλειαν
1 Timothy 6:9 But they that will be rich fall into temptation and a snare, and into many foolish and hurtful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition.
1 Timothy 6:10 ριζα γαρ παντων των κακων εστιν η φιλαργυρια ης τινες ορεγομενοι απεπλανηθησαν απο της πιστεως και εαυτους περιεπειραν οδυναις πολλαις
1 Timothy 6:10 For the love of money is the root of all evil: which while some coveted after, they have erred from the faith, and pierced themselves through with many sorrows.
1 Timothy 6:11 συ δε ω ανθρωπε του θεου ταυτα φευγε διωκε δε δικαιοσυνην ευσεβειαν πιστιν αγαπην υπομονην πραοτητα
1 Timothy 6:11 But thou, O man of God, flee these things; and follow after righteousness, godliness, faith, love, patience, meekness.
1 Timothy 6:12 αγωνιζου τον καλον αγωνα της πιστεως επιλαβου της αιωνιου ζωης εις ην και εκληθης και ωμολογησας την καλην ομολογιαν ενωπιον πολλων μαρτυρων
1 Timothy 6:12 Fight the good fight of faith, lay hold on eternal life, whereunto thou art also called, and hast professed a good profession before many witnesses.
1 Timothy 6:13 παραγγελλω σοι ενωπιον του θεου του ζωοποιουντος τα παντα και χριστου ιησου του μαρτυρησαντος επι ποντιου πιλατου την καλην ομολογιαν
1 Timothy 6:13 I give thee charge in the sight of God, who quickeneth all things, and before Christ Jesus, who before Pontius Pilate witnessed a good confession;
1 Timothy 6:14 τηρησαι σε την εντολην ασπιλον ανεπιληπτον μεχρι της επιφανειας του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου
1 Timothy 6:14 That thou keep this commandment without spot, unrebukable, until the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ:
1 Timothy 6:15 ην καιροις ιδιοις δειξει ο μακαριος και μονος δυναστης ο βασιλευς των βασιλευοντων και κυριος των κυριευοντων
1 Timothy 6:15 Which in his times he shall shew, who is the blessed and only Potentate, the King of kings, and Lord of lords;
1 Timothy 6:16 ο μονος εχων αθανασιαν φως οικων απροσιτον ον ειδεν ουδεις ανθρωπων ουδε ιδειν δυναται ω τιμη και κρατος αιωνιον αμην
1 Timothy 6:16 Who only hath immortality, dwelling in the light which no man can approach unto; whom no man hath seen, nor can see: to whom be honour and power everlasting. Amen.
1 Timothy 6:17 τοις πλουσιοις εν τω νυν αιωνι παραγγελλε μη υψηλοφρονειν μηδε ηλπικεναι επι πλουτου αδηλοτητι αλλ εν τω θεω τω ζωντι τω παρεχοντι ημιν πλουσιως παντα εις απολαυσιν
1 Timothy 6:17 Charge them that are rich in this world, that they be not highminded, nor trust in uncertain riches, but in the living God, who giveth us richly all things to enjoy;
1 Timothy 6:18 αγαθοεργειν πλουτειν εν εργοις καλοις ευμεταδοτους ειναι κοινωνικους
1 Timothy 6:18 That they do good, that they be rich in good works, ready to distribute, willing to communicate;
1 Timothy 6:19 αποθησαυριζοντας εαυτοις θεμελιον καλον εις το μελλον ινα επιλαβωνται της αιωνιου ζωης
1 Timothy 6:19 Laying up in store for themselves a good foundation against the time to come, that they may lay hold on eternal life.
1 Timothy 6:20 ω τιμοθεε την παρακαταθηκην φυλαξον εκτρεπομενος τας βεβηλους κενοφωνιας και αντιθεσεις της ψευδωνυμου γνωσεως
1 Timothy 6:20 O Timothy, keep that which is committed to thy trust, avoiding profane and vain babblings, and oppositions of science falsely so called:
1 Timothy 6:21 ην τινες επαγγελλομενοι περι την πιστιν ηστοχησαν η χαρις μετα σου αμην [προς τιμοθεον πρωτη εγραφη απο λαοδικειας ητις εστιν μητροπολις φρυγιας της πακατιανης]
1 Timothy 6:21 Which some professing have erred concerning the faith. Grace be with thee. Amen.
2 Timothy 1:1 παυλος αποστολος ιησου χριστου δια θεληματος θεου κατ επαγγελιαν ζωης της εν χριστω ιησου
2 Timothy 1:1 Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, according to the promise of life which is in Christ Jesus,
2 Timothy 1:2 τιμοθεω αγαπητω τεκνω χαρις ελεος ειρηνη απο θεου πατρος και χριστου ιησου του κυριου ημων
2 Timothy 1:2 To Timothy, my dearly beloved son: Grace, mercy, and peace, from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.
2 Timothy 1:3 χαριν εχω τω θεω ω λατρευω απο προγονων εν καθαρα συνειδησει ως αδιαλειπτον εχω την περι σου μνειαν εν ταις δεησεσιν μου νυκτος και ημερας
2 Timothy 1:3 I thank God, whom I serve from my forefathers with pure conscience, that without ceasing I have remembrance of thee in my prayers night and day;
2 Timothy 1:4 επιποθων σε ιδειν μεμνημενος σου των δακρυων ινα χαρας πληρωθω
2 Timothy 1:4 Greatly desiring to see thee, being mindful of thy tears, that I may be filled with joy;
2 Timothy 1:5 υπομνησιν λαμβανων της εν σοι ανυποκριτου πιστεως ητις ενωκησεν πρωτον εν τη μαμμη σου λωιδι και τη μητρι σου ευνεικη πεπεισμαι δε οτι και εν σοι
2 Timothy 1:5 When I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee, which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois, and thy mother Eunice; and I am persuaded that in thee also.
2 Timothy 1:6 δι ην αιτιαν αναμιμνησκω σε αναζωπυρειν το χαρισμα του θεου ο εστιν εν σοι δια της επιθεσεως των χειρων μου
2 Timothy 1:6 Wherefore I put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of God, which is in thee by the putting on of my hands.
2 Timothy 1:7 ου γαρ εδωκεν ημιν ο θεος πνευμα δειλιας αλλα δυναμεως και αγαπης και σωφρονισμου
2 Timothy 1:7 For God hath not given us the spirit of fear; but of power, and of love, and of a sound mind.
2 Timothy 1:8 μη ουν επαισχυνθης το μαρτυριον του κυριου ημων μηδε εμε τον δεσμιον αυτου αλλα συγκακοπαθησον τω ευαγγελιω κατα δυναμιν θεου
2 Timothy 1:8 Be not thou therefore ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me his prisoner: but be thou partaker of the afflictions of the gospel according to the power of God;
2 Timothy 1:9 του σωσαντος ημας και καλεσαντος κλησει αγια ου κατα τα εργα ημων αλλα κατ ιδιαν προθεσιν και χαριν την δοθεισαν ημιν εν χριστω ιησου προ χρονων αιωνιων
2 Timothy 1:9 Who hath saved us, and called us with an holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and grace, which was given us in Christ Jesus before the world began,
2 Timothy 1:10 φανερωθεισαν δε νυν δια της επιφανειας του σωτηρος ημων ιησου χριστου καταργησαντος μεν τον θανατον φωτισαντος δε ζωην και αφθαρσιαν δια του ευαγγελιου
2 Timothy 1:10 But is now made manifest by the appearing of our Saviour Jesus Christ, who hath abolished death, and hath brought life and immortality to light through the gospel:
2 Timothy 1:11 εις ο ετεθην εγω κηρυξ και αποστολος και διδασκαλος εθνων
2 Timothy 1:11 Whereunto I am appointed a preacher, and an apostle, and a teacher of the Gentiles.
2 Timothy 1:12 δι ην αιτιαν και ταυτα πασχω αλλ ουκ επαισχυνομαι οιδα γαρ ω πεπιστευκα και πεπεισμαι οτι δυνατος εστιν την παραθηκην μου φυλαξαι εις εκεινην την ημεραν
2 Timothy 1:12 For the which cause I also suffer these things: nevertheless I am not ashamed: for I know whom I have believed, and am persuaded that he is able to keep that which I have committed unto him against that day.
2 Timothy 1:13 υποτυπωσιν εχε υγιαινοντων λογων ων παρ εμου ηκουσας εν πιστει και αγαπη τη εν χριστω ιησου
2 Timothy 1:13 Hold fast the form of sound words, which thou hast heard of me, in faith and love which is in Christ Jesus.
2 Timothy 1:14 την καλην παρακαταθηκην φυλαξον δια πνευματος αγιου του ενοικουντος εν ημιν
2 Timothy 1:14 That good thing which was committed unto thee keep by the Holy Ghost which dwelleth in us.
2 Timothy 1:15 οιδας τουτο οτι απεστραφησαν με παντες οι εν τη ασια ων εστιν φυγελλος και ερμογενης
2 Timothy 1:15 This thou knowest, that all they which are in Asia be turned away from me; of whom are Phygellus and Hermogenes.
2 Timothy 1:16 δωη ελεος ο κυριος τω ονησιφορου οικω οτι πολλακις με ανεψυξεν και την αλυσιν μου ουκ επησχυνθη
2 Timothy 1:16 The Lord give mercy unto the house of Onesiphorus; for he oft refreshed me, and was not ashamed of my chain:
2 Timothy 1:17 αλλα γενομενος εν ρωμη σπουδαιοτερον εζητησεν με και ευρεν
2 Timothy 1:17 But, when he was in Rome, he sought me out very diligently, and found me.
2 Timothy 1:18 δωη αυτω ο κυριος ευρειν ελεος παρα κυριου εν εκεινη τη ημερα και οσα εν εφεσω διηκονησεν βελτιον συ γινωσκεις
2 Timothy 1:18 The Lord grant unto him that he may find mercy of the Lord in that day: and in how many things he ministered unto me at Ephesus, thou knowest very well.
2 Timothy 2:1 συ ουν τεκνον μου ενδυναμου εν τη χαριτι τη εν χριστω ιησου
2 Timothy 2:1 Thou therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus.
2 Timothy 2:2 και α ηκουσας παρ εμου δια πολλων μαρτυρων ταυτα παραθου πιστοις ανθρωποις οιτινες ικανοι εσονται και ετερους διδαξαι
2 Timothy 2:2 And the things that thou hast heard of me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men, who shall be able to teach others also.
2 Timothy 2:3 συ ουν κακοπαθησον ως καλος στρατιωτης ιησου χριστου
2 Timothy 2:3 Thou therefore endure hardness, as a good soldier of Jesus Christ.
2 Timothy 2:4 ουδεις στρατευομενος εμπλεκεται ταις του βιου πραγματειαις ινα τω στρατολογησαντι αρεση
2 Timothy 2:4 No man that warreth entangleth himself with the affairs of this life; that he may please him who hath chosen him to be a soldier.
2 Timothy 2:5 εαν δε και αθλη τις ου στεφανουται εαν μη νομιμως αθληση
2 Timothy 2:5 And if a man also strive for masteries, yet is he not crowned, except he strive lawfully.
2 Timothy 2:6 τον κοπιωντα γεωργον δει πρωτον των καρπων μεταλαμβανειν
2 Timothy 2:6 The husbandman that laboureth must be first partaker of the fruits.
2 Timothy 2:7 νοει α λεγω δωη γαρ σοι ο κυριος συνεσιν εν πασιν
2 Timothy 2:7 Consider what I say; and the Lord give thee understanding in all things.
2 Timothy 2:8 μνημονευε ιησουν χριστον εγηγερμενον εκ νεκρων εκ σπερματος δαβιδ κατα το ευαγγελιον μου
2 Timothy 2:8 Remember that Jesus Christ of the seed of David was raised from the dead according to my gospel:
2 Timothy 2:9 εν ω κακοπαθω μεχρι δεσμων ως κακουργος αλλ ο λογος του θεου ου δεδεται
2 Timothy 2:9 Wherein I suffer trouble, as an evil doer, even unto bonds; but the word of God is not bound.
2 Timothy 2:10 δια τουτο παντα υπομενω δια τους εκλεκτους ινα και αυτοι σωτηριας τυχωσιν της εν χριστω ιησου μετα δοξης αιωνιου
2 Timothy 2:10 Therefore I endure all things for the elect's sakes, that they may also obtain the salvation which is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory.
2 Timothy 2:11 πιστος ο λογος ει γαρ συναπεθανομεν και συζησομεν
2 Timothy 2:11 It is a faithful saying: For if we be dead with him, we shall also live with him:
2 Timothy 2:12 ει υπομενομεν και συμβασιλευσομεν ει αρνουμεθα κακεινος αρνησεται ημας
2 Timothy 2:12 If we suffer, we shall also reign with him: if we deny him, he also will deny us:
2 Timothy 2:13 ει απιστουμεν εκεινος πιστος μενει αρνησασθαι εαυτον ου δυναται
2 Timothy 2:13 If we believe not, yet he abideth faithful: he cannot deny himself.
2 Timothy 2:14 ταυτα υπομιμνησκε διαμαρτυρομενος ενωπιον του κυριου μη λογομαχειν εις ουδεν χρησιμον επι καταστροφη των ακουοντων
2 Timothy 2:14 Of these things put them in remembrance, charging them before the Lord that they strive not about words to no profit, but to the subverting of the hearers.
2 Timothy 2:15 σπουδασον σεαυτον δοκιμον παραστησαι τω θεω εργατην ανεπαισχυντον ορθοτομουντα τον λογον της αληθειας
2 Timothy 2:15 Study to shew thyself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth.
2 Timothy 2:16 τας δε βεβηλους κενοφωνιας περιιστασο επι πλειον γαρ προκοψουσιν ασεβειας
2 Timothy 2:16 But shun profane and vain babblings: for they will increase unto more ungodliness.
2 Timothy 2:17 και ο λογος αυτων ως γαγγραινα νομην εξει ων εστιν υμεναιος και φιλητος
2 Timothy 2:17 And their word will eat as doth a canker: of whom is Hymenaeus and Philetus;
2 Timothy 2:18 οιτινες περι την αληθειαν ηστοχησαν λεγοντες την αναστασιν ηδη γεγονεναι και ανατρεπουσιν την τινων πιστιν
2 Timothy 2:18 Who concerning the truth have erred, saying that the resurrection is past already; and overthrow the faith of some.
2 Timothy 2:19 ο μεντοι στερεος θεμελιος του θεου εστηκεν εχων την σφραγιδα ταυτην εγνω κυριος τους οντας αυτου και αποστητω απο αδικιας πας ο ονομαζων το ονομα χριστου
2 Timothy 2:19 Nevertheless the foundation of God standeth sure, having this seal, The Lord knoweth them that are his. And, Let every one that nameth the name of Christ depart from iniquity.
2 Timothy 2:20 εν μεγαλη δε οικια ουκ εστιν μονον σκευη χρυσα και αργυρα αλλα και ξυλινα και οστρακινα και α μεν εις τιμην α δε εις ατιμιαν
2 Timothy 2:20 But in a great house there are not only vessels of gold and of silver, but also of wood and of earth; and some to honour, and some to dishonour.
2 Timothy 2:21 εαν ουν τις εκκαθαρη εαυτον απο τουτων εσται σκευος εις τιμην ηγιασμενον και ευχρηστον τω δεσποτη εις παν εργον αγαθον ητοιμασμενον
2 Timothy 2:21 If a man therefore purge himself from these, he shall be a vessel unto honour, sanctified, and meet for the master's use, and prepared unto every good work.
2 Timothy 2:22 τας δε νεωτερικας επιθυμιας φευγε διωκε δε δικαιοσυνην πιστιν αγαπην ειρηνην μετα των επικαλουμενων τον κυριον εκ καθαρας καρδιας
2 Timothy 2:22 Flee also youthful lusts: but follow righteousness, faith, charity, peace, with them that call on the Lord out of a pure heart.
2 Timothy 2:23 τας δε μωρας και απαιδευτους ζητησεις παραιτου ειδως οτι γεννωσιν μαχας
2 Timothy 2:23 But foolish and unlearned questions avoid, knowing that they do gender strifes.
2 Timothy 2:24 δουλον δε κυριου ου δει μαχεσθαι αλλ ηπιον ειναι προς παντας διδακτικον ανεξικακον
2 Timothy 2:24 And the servant of the Lord must not strive; but be gentle unto all men, apt to teach, patient,
2 Timothy 2:25 εν πραοτητι παιδευοντα τους αντιδιατιθεμενους μηποτε δω αυτοις ο θεος μετανοιαν εις επιγνωσιν αληθειας
2 Timothy 2:25 In meekness instructing those that oppose themselves; if God peradventure will give them repentance to the acknowledging of the truth;
2 Timothy 2:26 και ανανηψωσιν εκ της του διαβολου παγιδος εζωγρημενοι υπ αυτου εις το εκεινου θελημα
2 Timothy 2:26 And that they may recover themselves out of the snare of the devil, who are taken captive by him at his will.
2 Timothy 3:1 τουτο δε γινωσκε οτι εν εσχαταις ημεραις ενστησονται καιροι χαλεποι
2 Timothy 3:1 This know also, that in the last days perilous times shall come.
2 Timothy 3:2 εσονται γαρ οι ανθρωποι φιλαυτοι φιλαργυροι αλαζονες υπερηφανοι βλασφημοι γονευσιν απειθεις αχαριστοι ανοσιοι
2 Timothy 3:2 For men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy,
2 Timothy 3:3 αστοργοι ασπονδοι διαβολοι ακρατεις ανημεροι αφιλαγαθοι
2 Timothy 3:3 Without natural affection, trucebreakers, false accusers, incontinent, fierce, despisers of those that are good,
2 Timothy 3:4 προδοται προπετεις τετυφωμενοι φιληδονοι μαλλον η φιλοθεοι
2 Timothy 3:4 Traitors, heady, highminded, lovers of pleasures more than lovers of God;
2 Timothy 3:5 εχοντες μορφωσιν ευσεβειας την δε δυναμιν αυτης ηρνημενοι και τουτους αποτρεπου
2 Timothy 3:5 Having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof: from such turn away.
2 Timothy 3:6 εκ τουτων γαρ εισιν οι ενδυνοντες εις τας οικιας και αιχμαλωτευοντες τα γυναικαρια σεσωρευμενα αμαρτιαις αγομενα επιθυμιαις ποικιλαις
2 Timothy 3:6 For of this sort are they which creep into houses, and lead captive silly women laden with sins, led away with divers lusts,
2 Timothy 3:7 παντοτε μανθανοντα και μηδεποτε εις επιγνωσιν αληθειας ελθειν δυναμενα
2 Timothy 3:7 Ever learning, and never able to come to the knowledge of the truth.
2 Timothy 3:8 ον τροπον δε ιαννης και ιαμβρης αντεστησαν μωυσει ουτως και ουτοι ανθιστανται τη αληθεια ανθρωποι κατεφθαρμενοι τον νουν αδοκιμοι περι την πιστιν
2 Timothy 3:8 Now as Jannes and Jambres withstood Moses, so do these also resist the truth: men of corrupt minds, reprobate concerning the faith.
2 Timothy 3:9 αλλ ου προκοψουσιν επι πλειον η γαρ ανοια αυτων εκδηλος εσται πασιν ως και η εκεινων εγενετο
2 Timothy 3:9 But they shall proceed no further: for their folly shall be manifest unto all men, as their's also was.
2 Timothy 3:10 συ δε παρηκολουθηκας μου τη διδασκαλια τη αγωγη τη προθεσει τη πιστει τη μακροθυμια τη αγαπη τη υπομονη
2 Timothy 3:10 But thou hast fully known my doctrine, manner of life, purpose, faith, longsuffering, charity, patience,
2 Timothy 3:11 τοις διωγμοις τοις παθημασιν οια μοι εγενετο εν αντιοχεια εν ικονιω εν λυστροις οιους διωγμους υπηνεγκα και εκ παντων με ερρυσατο ο κυριος
2 Timothy 3:11 Persecutions, afflictions, which came unto me at Antioch, at Iconium, at Lystra; what persecutions I endured: but out of them all the Lord delivered me.
2 Timothy 3:12 και παντες δε οι θελοντες ευσεβως ζην εν χριστω ιησου διωχθησονται
2 Timothy 3:12 Yea, and all that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution.
2 Timothy 3:13 πονηροι δε ανθρωποι και γοητες προκοψουσιν επι το χειρον πλανωντες και πλανωμενοι
2 Timothy 3:13 But evil men and seducers shall wax worse and worse, deceiving, and being deceived.
2 Timothy 3:14 συ δε μενε εν οις εμαθες και επιστωθης ειδως παρα τινος εμαθες
2 Timothy 3:14 But continue thou in the things which thou hast learned and hast been assured of, knowing of whom thou hast learned them;
2 Timothy 3:15 και οτι απο βρεφους τα ιερα γραμματα οιδας τα δυναμενα σε σοφισαι εις σωτηριαν δια πιστεως της εν χριστω ιησου
2 Timothy 3:15 And that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus.
2 Timothy 3:16 πασα γραφη θεοπνευστος και ωφελιμος προς διδασκαλιαν προς ελεγχον προς επανορθωσιν προς παιδειαν την εν δικαιοσυνη
2 Timothy 3:16 All scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness:
2 Timothy 3:17 ινα αρτιος η ο του θεου ανθρωπος προς παν εργον αγαθον εξηρτισμενος
2 Timothy 3:17 That the man of God may be perfect, throughly furnished unto all good works.
2 Timothy 4:1 διαμαρτυρομαι ουν εγω ενωπιον του θεου και του κυριου ιησου χριστου του μελλοντος κρινειν ζωντας και νεκρους κατα την επιφανειαν αυτου και την βασιλειαν αυτου
2 Timothy 4:1 I charge thee therefore before God, and the Lord Jesus Christ, who shall judge the quick and the dead at his appearing and his kingdom;
2 Timothy 4:2 κηρυξον τον λογον επιστηθι ευκαιρως ακαιρως ελεγξον επιτιμησον παρακαλεσον εν παση μακροθυμια και διδαχη
2 Timothy 4:2 Preach the word; be instant in season, out of season; reprove, rebuke, exhort with all longsuffering and doctrine.
2 Timothy 4:3 εσται γαρ καιρος οτε της υγιαινουσης διδασκαλιας ουκ ανεξονται αλλα κατα τας επιθυμιας τας ιδιας εαυτοις επισωρευσουσιν διδασκαλους κνηθομενοι την ακοην
2 Timothy 4:3 For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine; but after their own lusts shall they heap to themselves teachers, having itching ears;
2 Timothy 4:4 και απο μεν της αληθειας την ακοην αποστρεψουσιν επι δε τους μυθους εκτραπησονται
2 Timothy 4:4 And they shall turn away their ears from the truth, and shall be turned unto fables.
2 Timothy 4:5 συ δε νηφε εν πασιν κακοπαθησον εργον ποιησον ευαγγελιστου την διακονιαν σου πληροφορησον
2 Timothy 4:5 But watch thou in all things, endure afflictions, do the work of an evangelist, make full proof of thy ministry.
2 Timothy 4:6 εγω γαρ ηδη σπενδομαι και ο καιρος της εμης αναλυσεως εφεστηκεν
2 Timothy 4:6 For I am now ready to be offered, and the time of my departure is at hand.
2 Timothy 4:7 τον αγωνα τον καλον ηγωνισμαι τον δρομον τετελεκα την πιστιν τετηρηκα
2 Timothy 4:7 I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith:
2 Timothy 4:8 λοιπον αποκειται μοι ο της δικαιοσυνης στεφανος ον αποδωσει μοι ο κυριος εν εκεινη τη ημερα ο δικαιος κριτης ου μονον δε εμοι αλλα και πασιν τοις ηγαπηκοσιν την επιφανειαν αυτου
2 Timothy 4:8 Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me at that day: and not to me only, but unto all them also that love his appearing.
2 Timothy 4:9 σπουδασον ελθειν προς με ταχεως
2 Timothy 4:9 Do thy diligence to come shortly unto me:
2 Timothy 4:10 δημας γαρ με εγκατελιπεν αγαπησας τον νυν αιωνα και επορευθη εις θεσσαλονικην κρησκης εις γαλατιαν τιτος εις δαλματιαν
2 Timothy 4:10 For Demas hath forsaken me, having loved this present world, and is departed unto Thessalonica; Crescens to Galatia, Titus unto Dalmatia.
2 Timothy 4:11 λουκας εστιν μονος μετ εμου μαρκον αναλαβων αγε μετα σεαυτου εστιν γαρ μοι ευχρηστος εις διακονιαν
2 Timothy 4:11 Only Luke is with me. Take Mark, and bring him with thee: for he is profitable to me for the ministry.
2 Timothy 4:12 τυχικον δε απεστειλα εις εφεσον
2 Timothy 4:12 And Tychicus have I sent to Ephesus.
2 Timothy 4:13 τον φαιλονην ον απελιπον εν τρωαδι παρα καρπω ερχομενος φερε και τα βιβλια μαλιστα τας μεμβρανας
2 Timothy 4:13 The cloke that I left at Troas with Carpus, when thou comest, bring with thee, and the books, but especially the parchments.
2 Timothy 4:14 αλεξανδρος ο χαλκευς πολλα μοι κακα ενεδειξατο αποδωη αυτω ο κυριος κατα τα εργα αυτου
2 Timothy 4:14 Alexander the coppersmith did me much evil: the Lord reward him according to his works:
2 Timothy 4:15 ον και συ φυλασσου λιαν γαρ ανθεστηκεν τοις ημετεροις λογοις
2 Timothy 4:15 Of whom be thou ware also; for he hath greatly withstood our words.
2 Timothy 4:16 εν τη πρωτη μου απολογια ουδεις μοι συμπαρεγενετο αλλα παντες με εγκατελιπον μη αυτοις λογισθειη
2 Timothy 4:16 At my first answer no man stood with me, but all men forsook me: I pray God that it may not be laid to their charge.
2 Timothy 4:17 ο δε κυριος μοι παρεστη και ενεδυναμωσεν με ινα δι εμου το κηρυγμα πληροφορηθη και ακουση παντα τα εθνη και ερρυσθην εκ στοματος λεοντος
2 Timothy 4:17 Notwithstanding the Lord stood with me, and strengthened me; that by me the preaching might be fully known, and that all the Gentiles might hear: and I was delivered out of the mouth of the lion.
2 Timothy 4:18 και ρυσεται με ο κυριος απο παντος εργου πονηρου και σωσει εις την βασιλειαν αυτου την επουρανιον ω η δοξα εις τους αιωνας των αιωνων αμην
2 Timothy 4:18 And the Lord shall deliver me from every evil work, and will preserve me unto his heavenly kingdom: to whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen.
2 Timothy 4:19 ασπασαι πρισκαν και ακυλαν και τον ονησιφορου οικον
2 Timothy 4:19 Salute Prisca and Aquila, and the household of Onesiphorus.
2 Timothy 4:20 εραστος εμεινεν εν κορινθω τροφιμον δε απελιπον εν μιλητω ασθενουντα
2 Timothy 4:20 Erastus abode at Corinth: but Trophimus have I left at Miletum sick.
2 Timothy 4:21 σπουδασον προ χειμωνος ελθειν ασπαζεται σε ευβουλος και πουδης και λινος και κλαυδια και οι αδελφοι παντες
2 Timothy 4:21 Do thy diligence to come before winter. Eubulus greeteth thee, and Pudens, and Linus, and Claudia, and all the brethren.
2 Timothy 4:22 ο κυριος ιησους χριστος μετα του πνευματος σου η χαρις μεθ υμων αμην [προς τιμοθεον δευτερα της εφεσιων εκκλησιας πρωτον επισκοπον χειροτονηθεντα εγραφη απο ρωμης οτε εκ δευτερου παρεστη παυλος τω καισαρι νερωνι]
2 Timothy 4:22 The Lord Jesus Christ be with thy spirit. Grace be with you.  Amen.
Titus 1:1 παυλος δουλος θεου αποστολος δε ιησου χριστου κατα πιστιν εκλεκτων θεου και επιγνωσιν αληθειας της κατ ευσεβειαν
Titus 1:1 Paul, a servant of God, and an apostle of Jesus Christ, according to the faith of God's elect, and the acknowledging of the truth which is after godliness;
Titus 1:2 επ ελπιδι ζωης αιωνιου ην επηγγειλατο ο αψευδης θεος προ χρονων αιωνιων
Titus 1:2 In hope of eternal life, which God, that cannot lie, promised before the world began;
Titus 1:3 εφανερωσεν δε καιροις ιδιοις τον λογον αυτου εν κηρυγματι ο επιστευθην εγω κατ επιταγην του σωτηρος ημων θεου
Titus 1:3 But hath in due times manifested his word through preaching, which is committed unto me according to the commandment of God our Saviour;
Titus 1:4 τιτω γνησιω τεκνω κατα κοινην πιστιν χαρις ελεος ειρηνη απο θεου πατρος και κυριου ιησου χριστου του σωτηρος ημων
Titus 1:4 To Titus, mine own son after the common faith: Grace, mercy, and peace, from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ our Saviour.
Titus 1:5 τουτου χαριν κατελιπον σε εν κρητη ινα τα λειποντα επιδιορθωση και καταστησης κατα πολιν πρεσβυτερους ως εγω σοι διεταξαμην
Titus 1:5 For this cause left I thee in Crete, that thou shouldest set in order the things that are wanting, and ordain elders in every city, as I had appointed thee:
Titus 1:6 ει τις εστιν ανεγκλητος μιας γυναικος ανηρ τεκνα εχων πιστα μη εν κατηγορια ασωτιας η ανυποτακτα
Titus 1:6 If any be blameless, the husband of one wife, having faithful children not accused of riot or unruly.
Titus 1:7 δει γαρ τον επισκοπον ανεγκλητον ειναι ως θεου οικονομον μη αυθαδη μη οργιλον μη παροινον μη πληκτην μη αισχροκερδη
Titus 1:7 For a bishop must be blameless, as the steward of God; not selfwilled, not soon angry, not given to wine, no striker, not given to filthy lucre;
Titus 1:8 αλλα φιλοξενον φιλαγαθον σωφρονα δικαιον οσιον εγκρατη
Titus 1:8 But a lover of hospitality, a lover of good men, sober, just, holy, temperate;
Titus 1:9 αντεχομενον του κατα την διδαχην πιστου λογου ινα δυνατος η και παρακαλειν εν τη διδασκαλια τη υγιαινουση και τους αντιλεγοντας ελεγχειν
Titus 1:9 Holding fast the faithful word as he hath been taught, that he may be able by sound doctrine both to exhort and to convince the gainsayers.
Titus 1:10 εισιν γαρ πολλοι και ανυποτακτοι ματαιολογοι και φρεναπαται μαλιστα οι εκ περιτομης
Titus 1:10 For there are many unruly and vain talkers and deceivers, specially they of the circumcision:
Titus 1:11 ους δει επιστομιζειν οιτινες ολους οικους ανατρεπουσιν διδασκοντες α μη δει αισχρου κερδους χαριν
Titus 1:11 Whose mouths must be stopped, who subvert whole houses, teaching things which they ought not, for filthy lucre's sake.
Titus 1:12 ειπεν τις εξ αυτων ιδιος αυτων προφητης κρητες αει ψευσται κακα θηρια γαστερες αργαι
Titus 1:12 One of themselves, even a prophet of their own, said, The Cretians are alway liars, evil beasts, slow bellies.
Titus 1:13 η μαρτυρια αυτη εστιν αληθης δι ην αιτιαν ελεγχε αυτους αποτομως ινα υγιαινωσιν εν τη πιστει
Titus 1:13 This witness is true. Wherefore rebuke them sharply, that they may be sound in the faith;
Titus 1:14 μη προσεχοντες ιουδαικοις μυθοις και εντολαις ανθρωπων αποστρεφομενων την αληθειαν
Titus 1:14 Not giving heed to Jewish fables, and commandments of men, that turn from the truth.
Titus 1:15 παντα μεν καθαρα τοις καθαροις τοις δε μεμιασμενοις και απιστοις ουδεν καθαρον αλλα μεμιανται αυτων και ο νους και η συνειδησις
Titus 1:15 Unto the pure all things are pure: but unto them that are defiled and unbelieving is nothing pure; but even their mind and conscience is defiled.
Titus 1:16 θεον ομολογουσιν ειδεναι τοις δε εργοις αρνουνται βδελυκτοι οντες και απειθεις και προς παν εργον αγαθον αδοκιμοι
Titus 1:16 They profess that they know God; but in works they deny him, being abominable, and disobedient, and unto every good work reprobate.
Titus 2:1 συ δε λαλει α πρεπει τη υγιαινουση διδασκαλια
Titus 2:1 But speak thou the things which become sound doctrine:
Titus 2:2 πρεσβυτας νηφαλιους ειναι σεμνους σωφρονας υγιαινοντας τη πιστει τη αγαπη τη υπομονη
Titus 2:2 That the aged men be sober, grave, temperate, sound in faith, in charity, in patience.
Titus 2:3 πρεσβυτιδας ωσαυτως εν καταστηματι ιεροπρεπεις μη διαβολους μη οινω πολλω δεδουλωμενας καλοδιδασκαλους
Titus 2:3 The aged women likewise, that they be in behaviour as becometh holiness, not false accusers, not given to much wine, teachers of good things;
Titus 2:4 ινα σωφρονιζωσιν τας νεας φιλανδρους ειναι φιλοτεκνους
Titus 2:4 That they may teach the young women to be sober, to love their husbands, to love their children,
Titus 2:5 σωφρονας αγνας οικουρους αγαθας υποτασσομενας τοις ιδιοις ανδρασιν ινα μη ο λογος του θεου βλασφημηται
Titus 2:5 To be discreet, chaste, keepers at home, good, obedient to their own husbands, that the word of God be not blasphemed.
Titus 2:6 τους νεωτερους ωσαυτως παρακαλει σωφρονειν
Titus 2:6 Young men likewise exhort to be sober minded.
Titus 2:7 περι παντα σεαυτον παρεχομενος τυπον καλων εργων εν τη διδασκαλια αδιαφθοριαν σεμνοτητα αφθαρσιαν
Titus 2:7 In all things shewing thyself a pattern of good works: in doctrine shewing uncorruptness, gravity, sincerity,
Titus 2:8 λογον υγιη ακαταγνωστον ινα ο εξ εναντιας εντραπη μηδεν εχων περι υμων λεγειν φαυλον
Titus 2:8 Sound speech, that cannot be condemned; that he that is of the contrary part may be ashamed, having no evil thing to say of you.
Titus 2:9 δουλους ιδιοις δεσποταις υποτασσεσθαι εν πασιν ευαρεστους ειναι μη αντιλεγοντας
Titus 2:9 Exhort servants to be obedient unto their own masters, and to please them well in all things; not answering again;
Titus 2:10 μη νοσφιζομενους αλλα πιστιν πασαν ενδεικνυμενους αγαθην ινα την διδασκαλιαν του σωτηρος υμων θεου κοσμωσιν εν πασιν
Titus 2:10 Not purloining, but shewing all good fidelity; that they may adorn the doctrine of God our Saviour in all things.
Titus 2:11 επεφανη γαρ η χαρις του θεου η σωτηριος πασιν ανθρωποις
Titus 2:11 For the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared to all men,
Titus 2:12 παιδευουσα ημας ινα αρνησαμενοι την ασεβειαν και τας κοσμικας επιθυμιας σωφρονως και δικαιως και ευσεβως ζησωμεν εν τω νυν αιωνι
Titus 2:12 Teaching us that, denying ungodliness and worldly lusts, we should live soberly, righteously, and godly, in this present world;
Titus 2:13 προσδεχομενοι την μακαριαν ελπιδα και επιφανειαν της δοξης του μεγαλου θεου και σωτηρος ημων ιησου χριστου
Titus 2:13 Looking for that blessed hope, and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Saviour Jesus Christ;
Titus 2:14 ος εδωκεν εαυτον υπερ ημων ινα λυτρωσηται ημας απο πασης ανομιας και καθαριση εαυτω λαον περιουσιον ζηλωτην καλων εργων
Titus 2:14 Who gave himself for us, that he might redeem us from all iniquity, and purify unto himself a peculiar people, zealous of good works.
Titus 2:15 ταυτα λαλει και παρακαλει και ελεγχε μετα πασης επιταγης μηδεις σου περιφρονειτω
Titus 2:15 These things speak, and exhort, and rebuke with all authority.  Let no man despise thee.
Titus 3:1 υπομιμνησκε αυτους αρχαις και εξουσιαις υποτασσεσθαι πειθαρχειν προς παν εργον αγαθον ετοιμους ειναι
Titus 3:1 Put them in mind to be subject to principalities and powers, to obey magistrates, to be ready to every good work,
Titus 3:2 μηδενα βλασφημειν αμαχους ειναι επιεικεις πασαν ενδεικνυμενους πραοτητα προς παντας ανθρωπους
Titus 3:2 To speak evil of no man, to be no brawlers, but gentle, shewing all meekness unto all men.
Titus 3:3 ημεν γαρ ποτε και ημεις ανοητοι απειθεις πλανωμενοι δουλευοντες επιθυμιαις και ηδοναις ποικιλαις εν κακια και φθονω διαγοντες στυγητοι μισουντες αλληλους
Titus 3:3 For we ourselves also were sometimes foolish, disobedient, deceived, serving divers lusts and pleasures, living in malice and envy, hateful, and hating one another.
Titus 3:4 οτε δε η χρηστοτης και η φιλανθρωπια επεφανη του σωτηρος ημων θεου
Titus 3:4 But after that the kindness and love of God our Saviour toward man appeared,
Titus 3:5 ουκ εξ εργων των εν δικαιοσυνη ων εποιησαμεν ημεις αλλα κατα τον αυτου ελεον εσωσεν ημας δια λουτρου παλιγγενεσιας και ανακαινωσεως πνευματος αγιου
Titus 3:5 Not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us, by the washing of regeneration, and renewing of the Holy Ghost;
Titus 3:6 ου εξεχεεν εφ ημας πλουσιως δια ιησου χριστου του σωτηρος ημων
Titus 3:6 Which he shed on us abundantly through Jesus Christ our Saviour;
Titus 3:7 ινα δικαιωθεντες τη εκεινου χαριτι κληρονομοι γενωμεθα κατ ελπιδα ζωης αιωνιου
Titus 3:7 That being justified by his grace, we should be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life.
Titus 3:8 πιστος ο λογος και περι τουτων βουλομαι σε διαβεβαιουσθαι ινα φροντιζωσιν καλων εργων προιστασθαι οι πεπιστευκοτες τω θεω ταυτα εστιν τα καλα και ωφελιμα τοις ανθρωποις
Titus 3:8 This is a faithful saying, and these things I will that thou affirm constantly, that they which have believed in God might be careful to maintain good works. These things are good and profitable unto men.
Titus 3:9 μωρας δε ζητησεις και γενεαλογιας και ερεις και μαχας νομικας περιιστασο εισιν γαρ ανωφελεις και ματαιοι
Titus 3:9 But avoid foolish questions, and genealogies, and contentions, and strivings about the law; for they are unprofitable and vain.
Titus 3:10 αιρετικον ανθρωπον μετα μιαν και δευτεραν νουθεσιαν παραιτου
Titus 3:10 A man that is an heretick after the first and second admonition reject;
Titus 3:11 ειδως οτι εξεστραπται ο τοιουτος και αμαρτανει ων αυτοκατακριτος
Titus 3:11 Knowing that he that is such is subverted, and sinneth, being condemned of himself.
Titus 3:12 οταν πεμψω αρτεμαν προς σε η τυχικον σπουδασον ελθειν προς με εις νικοπολιν εκει γαρ κεκρικα παραχειμασαι
Titus 3:12 When I shall send Artemas unto thee, or Tychicus, be diligent to come unto me to Nicopolis: for I have determined there to winter.
Titus 3:13 ζηναν τον νομικον και απολλω σπουδαιως προπεμψον ινα μηδεν αυτοις λειπη
Titus 3:13 Bring Zenas the lawyer and Apollos on their journey diligently, that nothing be wanting unto them.
Titus 3:14 μανθανετωσαν δε και οι ημετεροι καλων εργων προιστασθαι εις τας αναγκαιας χρειας ινα μη ωσιν ακαρποι
Titus 3:14 And let our's also learn to maintain good works for necessary uses, that they be not unfruitful.
Titus 3:15 ασπαζονται σε οι μετ εμου παντες ασπασαι τους φιλουντας ημας εν πιστει η χαρις μετα παντων υμων αμην [προς τιτον της κρητων εκκλησιας πρωτον επισκοπον χειροτονηθεντα εγραφη απο νικοπολεως της μακεδονιας]
Titus 3:15 All that are with me salute thee. Greet them that love us in the faith. Grace be with you all. Amen.
Philemon 1:1 παυλος δεσμιος χριστου ιησου και τιμοθεος ο αδελφος φιλημονι τω αγαπητω και συνεργω ημων
Philippians 1:1 Paul and Timotheus, the servants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus which are at Philippi, with the bishops and deacons:
Philemon 1:2 και απφια τη αγαπητη και αρχιππω τω συστρατιωτη ημων και τη κατ οικον σου εκκλησια
Philippians 1:2 Grace be unto you, and peace, from God our Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ.
Philemon 1:3 χαρις υμιν και ειρηνη απο θεου πατρος ημων και κυριου ιησου χριστου
Philippians 1:3 I thank my God upon every remembrance of you,
Philemon 1:4 ευχαριστω τω θεω μου παντοτε μνειαν σου ποιουμενος επι των προσευχων μου
Philippians 1:4 Always in every prayer of mine for you all making request with joy,
Philemon 1:5 ακουων σου την αγαπην και την πιστιν ην εχεις προς τον κυριον ιησουν και εις παντας τους αγιους
Philippians 1:5 For your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now;
Philemon 1:6 οπως η κοινωνια της πιστεως σου ενεργης γενηται εν επιγνωσει παντος αγαθου του εν υμιν εις χριστον ιησουν
Philippians 1:6 Being confident of this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ:
Philemon 1:7 χαριν γαρ εχομεν πολλην και παρακλησιν επι τη αγαπη σου οτι τα σπλαγχνα των αγιων αναπεπαυται δια σου αδελφε
Philippians 1:7 Even as it is meet for me to think this of you all, because I have you in my heart; inasmuch as both in my bonds, and in the defence and confirmation of the gospel, ye all are partakers of my grace.
Philemon 1:8 διο πολλην εν χριστω παρρησιαν εχων επιτασσειν σοι το ανηκον
Philippians 1:8 For God is my record, how greatly I long after you all in the bowels of Jesus Christ.
Philemon 1:9 δια την αγαπην μαλλον παρακαλω τοιουτος ων ως παυλος πρεσβυτης νυνι δε και δεσμιος ιησου χριστου
Philippians 1:9 And this I pray, that your love may abound yet more and more in knowledge and in all judgment;
Philemon 1:10 παρακαλω σε περι του εμου τεκνου ον εγεννησα εν τοις δεσμοις μου ονησιμον
Philippians 1:10 That ye may approve things that are excellent; that ye may be sincere and without offence till the day of Christ.
Philemon 1:11 τον ποτε σοι αχρηστον νυνι δε σοι και εμοι ευχρηστον ον ανεπεμψα
Philippians 1:11 Being filled with the fruits of righteousness, which are by Jesus Christ, unto the glory and praise of God.
Philemon 1:12 συ δε αυτον τουτεστιν τα εμα σπλαγχνα προσλαβου
Philippians 1:12 But I would ye should understand, brethren, that the things which happened unto me have fallen out rather unto the furtherance of the gospel;
Philemon 1:13 ον εγω εβουλομην προς εμαυτον κατεχειν ινα υπερ σου διακονη μοι εν τοις δεσμοις του ευαγγελιου
Philippians 1:13 So that my bonds in Christ are manifest in all the palace, and in all other places;
Philemon 1:14 χωρις δε της σης γνωμης ουδεν ηθελησα ποιησαι ινα μη ως κατα αναγκην το αγαθον σου η αλλα κατα εκουσιον
Philippians 1:14 And many of the brethren in the Lord, waxing confident by my bonds, are much more bold to speak the word without fear.
Philemon 1:15 ταχα γαρ δια τουτο εχωρισθη προς ωραν ινα αιωνιον αυτον απεχης
Philippians 1:15 Some indeed preach Christ even of envy and strife; and some also of good will:
Philemon 1:16 ουκετι ως δουλον αλλ υπερ δουλον αδελφον αγαπητον μαλιστα εμοι ποσω δε μαλλον σοι και εν σαρκι και εν κυριω
Philippians 1:16 The one preach Christ of contention, not sincerely, supposing to add affliction to my bonds:
Philemon 1:17 ει ουν εμε εχεις κοινωνον προσλαβου αυτον ως εμε
Philippians 1:17 But the other of love, knowing that I am set for the defence of the gospel.
Philemon 1:18 ει δε τι ηδικησεν σε η οφειλει τουτο εμοι ελλογει
Philippians 1:18 What then? notwithstanding, every way, whether in pretence, or in truth, Christ is preached; and I therein do rejoice, yea, and will rejoice.
Philemon 1:19 εγω παυλος εγραψα τη εμη χειρι εγω αποτισω ινα μη λεγω σοι οτι και σεαυτον μοι προσοφειλεις
Philippians 1:19 For I know that this shall turn to my salvation through your prayer, and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ,
Philemon 1:20 ναι αδελφε εγω σου οναιμην εν κυριω αναπαυσον μου τα σπλαγχνα εν κυριω
Philippians 1:20 According to my earnest expectation and my hope, that in nothing I shall be ashamed, but that with all boldness, as always, so now also Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether it be by life, or by death.
Philemon 1:21 πεποιθως τη υπακοη σου εγραψα σοι ειδως οτι και υπερ ο λεγω ποιησεις
Philippians 1:21 For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain.
Philemon 1:22 αμα δε και ετοιμαζε μοι ξενιαν ελπιζω γαρ οτι δια των προσευχων υμων χαρισθησομαι υμιν
Philippians 1:22 But if I live in the flesh, this is the fruit of my labour: yet what I shall choose I wot not.
Philemon 1:23 ασπαζονται σε επαφρας ο συναιχμαλωτος μου εν χριστω ιησου
Philippians 1:23 For I am in a strait betwixt two, having a desire to depart, and to be with Christ; which is far better:
Philemon 1:24 μαρκος αρισταρχος δημας λουκας οι συνεργοι μου
Philippians 1:24 Nevertheless to abide in the flesh is more needful for you.
Philemon 1:25 η χαρις του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου μετα του πνευματος υμων αμην [προς φιλημονα εγραφη απο ρωμης δια ονησιμου οικετου]
Philippians 1:25 And having this confidence, I know that I shall abide and continue with you all for your furtherance and joy of faith;
Hebrews 1:1 πολυμερως και πολυτροπως παλαι ο θεος λαλησας τοις πατρασιν εν τοις προφηταις επ εσχατων των ημερων τουτων ελαλησεν ημιν εν υιω
Hebrews 1:1 God, who at sundry times and in divers manners spake in time past unto the fathers by the prophets,
Hebrews 1:2 ον εθηκεν κληρονομον παντων δι ου και τους αιωνας εποιησεν
Hebrews 1:2 Hath in these last days spoken unto us by his Son, whom he hath appointed heir of all things, by whom also he made the worlds;
Hebrews 1:3 ος ων απαυγασμα της δοξης και χαρακτηρ της υποστασεως αυτου φερων τε τα παντα τω ρηματι της δυναμεως αυτου δι εαυτου καθαρισμον ποιησαμενος των αμαρτιων ημων εκαθισεν εν δεξια της μεγαλωσυνης εν υψηλοις
Hebrews 1:3 Who being the brightness of his glory, and the express image of his person, and upholding all things by the word of his power, when he had by himself purged our sins, sat down on the right hand of the Majesty on high:
Hebrews 1:4 τοσουτω κρειττων γενομενος των αγγελων οσω διαφορωτερον παρ αυτους κεκληρονομηκεν ονομα
Hebrews 1:4 Being made so much better than the angels, as he hath by inheritance obtained a more excellent name than they.
Hebrews 1:5 τινι γαρ ειπεν ποτε των αγγελων υιος μου ει συ εγω σημερον γεγεννηκα σε και παλιν εγω εσομαι αυτω εις πατερα και αυτος εσται μοι εις υιον
Hebrews 1:5 For unto which of the angels said he at any time, Thou art my Son, this day have I begotten thee? And again, I will be to him a Father, and he shall be to me a Son?
Hebrews 1:6 οταν δε παλιν εισαγαγη τον πρωτοτοκον εις την οικουμενην λεγει και προσκυνησατωσαν αυτω παντες αγγελοι θεου
Hebrews 1:6 And again, when he bringeth in the firstbegotten into the world, he saith, And let all the angels of God worship him.
Hebrews 1:7 και προς μεν τους αγγελους λεγει ο ποιων τους αγγελους αυτου πνευματα και τους λειτουργους αυτου πυρος φλογα
Hebrews 1:7 And of the angels he saith, Who maketh his angels spirits, and his ministers a flame of fire.
Hebrews 1:8 προς δε τον υιον ο θρονος σου ο θεος εις τον αιωνα του αιωνος ραβδος ευθυτητος η ραβδος της βασιλειας σου
Hebrews 1:8 But unto the Son he saith, Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever: a sceptre of righteousness is the sceptre of thy kingdom.
Hebrews 1:9 ηγαπησας δικαιοσυνην και εμισησας ανομιαν δια τουτο εχρισεν σε ο θεος ο θεος σου ελαιον αγαλλιασεως παρα τους μετοχους σου
Hebrews 1:9 Thou hast loved righteousness, and hated iniquity; therefore God, even thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows.
Hebrews 1:10 και συ κατ αρχας κυριε την γην εθεμελιωσας και εργα των χειρων σου εισιν οι ουρανοι
Hebrews 1:10 And, Thou, Lord, in the beginning hast laid the foundation of the earth; and the heavens are the works of thine hands:
Hebrews 1:11 αυτοι απολουνται συ δε διαμενεις και παντες ως ιματιον παλαιωθησονται
Hebrews 1:11 They shall perish; but thou remainest; and they all shall wax old as doth a garment;
Hebrews 1:12 και ωσει περιβολαιον ελιξεις αυτους και αλλαγησονται συ δε ο αυτος ει και τα ετη σου ουκ εκλειψουσιν
Hebrews 1:12 And as a vesture shalt thou fold them up, and they shall be changed: but thou art the same, and thy years shall not fail.
Hebrews 1:13 προς τινα δε των αγγελων ειρηκεν ποτε καθου εκ δεξιων μου εως αν θω τους εχθρους σου υποποδιον των ποδων σου
Hebrews 1:13 But to which of the angels said he at any time, Sit on my right hand, until I make thine enemies thy footstool?
Hebrews 1:14 ουχι παντες εισιν λειτουργικα πνευματα εις διακονιαν αποστελλομενα δια τους μελλοντας κληρονομειν σωτηριαν
Hebrews 1:14 Are they not all ministering spirits, sent forth to minister for them who shall be heirs of salvation?
Hebrews 2:1 δια τουτο δει περισσοτερως ημας προσεχειν τοις ακουσθεισιν μηποτε παραρρυωμεν
Hebrews 2:1 Therefore we ought to give the more earnest heed to the things which we have heard, lest at any time we should let them slip.
Hebrews 2:2 ει γαρ ο δι αγγελων λαληθεις λογος εγενετο βεβαιος και πασα παραβασις και παρακοη ελαβεν ενδικον μισθαποδοσιαν
Hebrews 2:2 For if the word spoken by angels was stedfast, and every transgression and disobedience received a just recompence of reward;
Hebrews 2:3 πως ημεις εκφευξομεθα τηλικαυτης αμελησαντες σωτηριας ητις αρχην λαβουσα λαλεισθαι δια του κυριου υπο των ακουσαντων εις ημας εβεβαιωθη
Hebrews 2:3 How shall we escape, if we neglect so great salvation; which at the first began to be spoken by the Lord, and was confirmed unto us by them that heard him;
Hebrews 2:4 συνεπιμαρτυρουντος του θεου σημειοις τε και τερασιν και ποικιλαις δυναμεσιν και πνευματος αγιου μερισμοις κατα την αυτου θελησιν
Hebrews 2:4 God also bearing them witness, both with signs and wonders, and with divers miracles, and gifts of the Holy Ghost, according to his own will?
Hebrews 2:5 ου γαρ αγγελοις υπεταξεν την οικουμενην την μελλουσαν περι ης λαλουμεν
Hebrews 2:5 For unto the angels hath he not put in subjection the world to come, whereof we speak.
Hebrews 2:6 διεμαρτυρατο δε που τις λεγων τι εστιν ανθρωπος οτι μιμνησκη αυτου η υιος ανθρωπου οτι επισκεπτη αυτον
Hebrews 2:6 But one in a certain place testified, saying, What is man, that thou art mindful of him? or the son of man that thou visitest him?
Hebrews 2:7 ηλαττωσας αυτον βραχυ τι παρ αγγελους δοξη και τιμη εστεφανωσας αυτον και κατεστησας αυτον επι τα εργα των χειρων σου
Hebrews 2:7 Thou madest him a little lower than the angels; thou crownedst him with glory and honour, and didst set him over the works of thy hands:
Hebrews 2:8 παντα υπεταξας υποκατω των ποδων αυτου εν γαρ τω υποταξαι αυτω τα παντα ουδεν αφηκεν αυτω ανυποτακτον νυν δε ουπω ορωμεν αυτω τα παντα υποτεταγμενα
Hebrews 2:8 Thou hast put all things in subjection under his feet. For in that he put all in subjection under him, he left nothing that is not put under him. But now we see not yet all things put under him.
Hebrews 2:9 τον δε βραχυ τι παρ αγγελους ηλαττωμενον βλεπομεν ιησουν δια το παθημα του θανατου δοξη και τιμη εστεφανωμενον οπως χαριτι θεου υπερ παντος γευσηται θανατου
Hebrews 2:9 But we see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels for the suffering of death, crowned with glory and honour; that he by the grace of God should taste death for every man.
Hebrews 2:10 επρεπεν γαρ αυτω δι ον τα παντα και δι ου τα παντα πολλους υιους εις δοξαν αγαγοντα τον αρχηγον της σωτηριας αυτων δια παθηματων τελειωσαι
Hebrews 2:10 For it became him, for whom are all things, and by whom are all things, in bringing many sons unto glory, to make the captain of their salvation perfect through sufferings.
Hebrews 2:11 ο τε γαρ αγιαζων και οι αγιαζομενοι εξ ενος παντες δι ην αιτιαν ουκ επαισχυνεται αδελφους αυτους καλειν
Hebrews 2:11 For both he that sanctifieth and they who are sanctified are all of one: for which cause he is not ashamed to call them brethren,
Hebrews 2:12 λεγων απαγγελω το ονομα σου τοις αδελφοις μου εν μεσω εκκλησιας υμνησω σε
Hebrews 2:12 Saying, I will declare thy name unto my brethren, in the midst of the church will I sing praise unto thee.
Hebrews 2:13 και παλιν εγω εσομαι πεποιθως επ αυτω και παλιν ιδου εγω και τα παιδια α μοι εδωκεν ο θεος
Hebrews 2:13 And again, I will put my trust in him. And again, Behold I and the children which God hath given me.
Hebrews 2:14 επει ουν τα παιδια κεκοινωνηκεν σαρκος και αιματος και αυτος παραπλησιως μετεσχεν των αυτων ινα δια του θανατου καταργηση τον το κρατος εχοντα του θανατου τουτεστιν τον διαβολον
Hebrews 2:14 Forasmuch then as the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he also himself likewise took part of the same; that through death he might destroy him that had the power of death, that is, the devil;
Hebrews 2:15 και απαλλαξη τουτους οσοι φοβω θανατου δια παντος του ζην ενοχοι ησαν δουλειας
Hebrews 2:15 And deliver them who through fear of death were all their lifetime subject to bondage.
Hebrews 2:16 ου γαρ δηπου αγγελων επιλαμβανεται αλλα σπερματος αβρααμ επιλαμβανεται
Hebrews 2:16 For verily he took not on him the nature of angels; but he took on him the seed of Abraham.
Hebrews 2:17 οθεν ωφειλεν κατα παντα τοις αδελφοις ομοιωθηναι ινα ελεημων γενηται και πιστος αρχιερευς τα προς τον θεον εις το ιλασκεσθαι τας αμαρτιας του λαου
Hebrews 2:17 Wherefore in all things it behoved him to be made like unto his brethren, that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God, to make reconciliation for the sins of the people.
Hebrews 2:18 εν ω γαρ πεπονθεν αυτος πειρασθεις δυναται τοις πειραζομενοις βοηθησαι
Hebrews 2:18 For in that he himself hath suffered being tempted, he is able to succour them that are tempted.
Hebrews 3:1 οθεν αδελφοι αγιοι κλησεως επουρανιου μετοχοι κατανοησατε τον αποστολον και αρχιερεα της ομολογιας ημων χριστον ιησουν
Hebrews 3:1 Wherefore, holy brethren, partakers of the heavenly calling, consider the Apostle and High Priest of our profession, Christ Jesus;
Hebrews 3:2 πιστον οντα τω ποιησαντι αυτον ως και μωσης εν ολω τω οικω αυτου
Hebrews 3:2 Who was faithful to him that appointed him, as also Moses was faithful in all his house.
Hebrews 3:3 πλειονος γαρ δοξης ουτος παρα μωσην ηξιωται καθ οσον πλειονα τιμην εχει του οικου ο κατασκευασας αυτον
Hebrews 3:3 For this man was counted worthy of more glory than Moses, inasmuch as he who hath builded the house hath more honour than the house.
Hebrews 3:4 πας γαρ οικος κατασκευαζεται υπο τινος ο δε τα παντα κατασκευασας θεος
Hebrews 3:4 For every house is builded by some man; but he that built all things is God.
Hebrews 3:5 και μωσης μεν πιστος εν ολω τω οικω αυτου ως θεραπων εις μαρτυριον των λαληθησομενων
Hebrews 3:5 And Moses verily was faithful in all his house, as a servant, for a testimony of those things which were to be spoken after;
Hebrews 3:6 χριστος δε ως υιος επι τον οικον αυτου ου οικος εσμεν ημεις εανπερ την παρρησιαν και το καυχημα της ελπιδος μεχρι τελους βεβαιαν κατασχωμεν
Hebrews 3:6 But Christ as a son over his own house; whose house are we, if we hold fast the confidence and the rejoicing of the hope firm unto the end.
Hebrews 3:7 διο καθως λεγει το πνευμα το αγιον σημερον εαν της φωνης αυτου ακουσητε
Hebrews 3:7 Wherefore (as the Holy Ghost saith, To day if ye will hear his voice,
Hebrews 3:8 μη σκληρυνητε τας καρδιας υμων ως εν τω παραπικρασμω κατα την ημεραν του πειρασμου εν τη ερημω
Hebrews 3:8 Harden not your hearts, as in the provocation, in the day of temptation in the wilderness:
Hebrews 3:9 ου επειρασαν με οι πατερες υμων εδοκιμασαν με και ειδον τα εργα μου τεσσαρακοντα ετη
Hebrews 3:9 When your fathers tempted me, proved me, and saw my works forty years.
Hebrews 3:10 διο προσωχθισα τη γενεα εκεινη και ειπον αει πλανωνται τη καρδια αυτοι δε ουκ εγνωσαν τας οδους μου
Hebrews 3:10 Wherefore I was grieved with that generation, and said, They do alway err in their heart; and they have not known my ways.
Hebrews 3:11 ως ωμοσα εν τη οργη μου ει εισελευσονται εις την καταπαυσιν μου
Hebrews 3:11 So I sware in my wrath, They shall not enter into my rest.)
Hebrews 3:12 βλεπετε αδελφοι μηποτε εσται εν τινι υμων καρδια πονηρα απιστιας εν τω αποστηναι απο θεου ζωντος
Hebrews 3:12 Take heed, brethren, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief, in departing from the living God.
Hebrews 3:13 αλλα παρακαλειτε εαυτους καθ εκαστην ημεραν αχρις ου το σημερον καλειται ινα μη σκληρυνθη τις εξ υμων απατη της αμαρτιας
Hebrews 3:13 But exhort one another daily, while it is called To day; lest any of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin.
Hebrews 3:14 μετοχοι γαρ γεγοναμεν του χριστου εανπερ την αρχην της υποστασεως μεχρι τελους βεβαιαν κατασχωμεν
Hebrews 3:14 For we are made partakers of Christ, if we hold the beginning of our confidence stedfast unto the end;
Hebrews 3:15 εν τω λεγεσθαι σημερον εαν της φωνης αυτου ακουσητε μη σκληρυνητε τας καρδιας υμων ως εν τω παραπικρασμω
Hebrews 3:15 While it is said, To day if ye will hear his voice, harden not your hearts, as in the provocation.
Hebrews 3:16 τινες γαρ ακουσαντες παρεπικραναν αλλ ου παντες οι εξελθοντες εξ αιγυπτου δια μωσεως
Hebrews 3:16 For some, when they had heard, did provoke: howbeit not all that came out of Egypt by Moses.
Hebrews 3:17 τισιν δε προσωχθισεν τεσσαρακοντα ετη ουχι τοις αμαρτησασιν ων τα κωλα επεσεν εν τη ερημω
Hebrews 3:17 But with whom was he grieved forty years? was it not with them that had sinned, whose carcases fell in the wilderness?
Hebrews 3:18 τισιν δε ωμοσεν μη εισελευσεσθαι εις την καταπαυσιν αυτου ει μη τοις απειθησασιν
Hebrews 3:18 And to whom sware he that they should not enter into his rest, but to them that believed not?
Hebrews 3:19 και βλεπομεν οτι ουκ ηδυνηθησαν εισελθειν δι απιστιαν
Hebrews 3:19 So we see that they could not enter in because of unbelief.
Hebrews 4:1 φοβηθωμεν ουν μηποτε καταλειπομενης επαγγελιας εισελθειν εις την καταπαυσιν αυτου δοκη τις εξ υμων υστερηκεναι
Hebrews 4:1 Let us therefore fear, lest, a promise being left us of entering into his rest, any of you should seem to come short of it.
Hebrews 4:2 και γαρ εσμεν ευηγγελισμενοι καθαπερ κακεινοι αλλ ουκ ωφελησεν ο λογος της ακοης εκεινους μη συγκεκραμενος τη πιστει τοις ακουσασιν
Hebrews 4:2 For unto us was the gospel preached, as well as unto them: but the word preached did not profit them, not being mixed with faith in them that heard it.
Hebrews 4:3 εισερχομεθα γαρ εις την καταπαυσιν οι πιστευσαντες καθως ειρηκεν ως ωμοσα εν τη οργη μου ει εισελευσονται εις την καταπαυσιν μου καιτοι των εργων απο καταβολης κοσμου γενηθεντων
Hebrews 4:3 For we which have believed do enter into rest, as he said, As I have sworn in my wrath, if they shall enter into my rest: although the works were finished from the foundation of the world.
Hebrews 4:4 ειρηκεν γαρ που περι της εβδομης ουτως και κατεπαυσεν ο θεος εν τη ημερα τη εβδομη απο παντων των εργων αυτου
Hebrews 4:4 For he spake in a certain place of the seventh day on this wise, And God did rest the seventh day from all his works.
Hebrews 4:5 και εν τουτω παλιν ει εισελευσονται εις την καταπαυσιν μου
Hebrews 4:5 And in this place again, If they shall enter into my rest.
Hebrews 4:6 επει ουν απολειπεται τινας εισελθειν εις αυτην και οι προτερον ευαγγελισθεντες ουκ εισηλθον δι απειθειαν
Hebrews 4:6 Seeing therefore it remaineth that some must enter therein, and they to whom it was first preached entered not in because of unbelief:
Hebrews 4:7 παλιν τινα οριζει ημεραν σημερον εν δαβιδ λεγων μετα τοσουτον χρονον καθως ειρηται σημερον εαν της φωνης αυτου ακουσητε μη σκληρυνητε τας καρδιας υμων
Hebrews 4:7 Again, he limiteth a certain day, saying in David, To day, after so long a time; as it is said, To day if ye will hear his voice, harden not your hearts.
Hebrews 4:8 ει γαρ αυτους ιησους κατεπαυσεν ουκ αν περι αλλης ελαλει μετα ταυτα ημερας
Hebrews 4:8 For if Jesus had given them rest, then would he not afterward have spoken of another day.
Hebrews 4:9 αρα απολειπεται σαββατισμος τω λαω του θεου
Hebrews 4:9 There remaineth therefore a rest to the people of God.
Hebrews 4:10 ο γαρ εισελθων εις την καταπαυσιν αυτου και αυτος κατεπαυσεν απο των εργων αυτου ωσπερ απο των ιδιων ο θεος
Hebrews 4:10 For he that is entered into his rest, he also hath ceased from his own works, as God did from his.
Hebrews 4:11 σπουδασωμεν ουν εισελθειν εις εκεινην την καταπαυσιν ινα μη εν τω αυτω τις υποδειγματι πεση της απειθειας
Hebrews 4:11 Let us labour therefore to enter into that rest, lest any man fall after the same example of unbelief.
Hebrews 4:12 ζων γαρ ο λογος του θεου και ενεργης και τομωτερος υπερ πασαν μαχαιραν διστομον και διικνουμενος αχρι μερισμου ψυχης τε και πνευματος αρμων τε και μυελων και κριτικος ενθυμησεων και εννοιων καρδιας
Hebrews 4:12 For the word of God is quick, and powerful, and sharper than any twoedged sword, piercing even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit, and of the joints and marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart.
Hebrews 4:13 και ουκ εστιν κτισις αφανης ενωπιον αυτου παντα δε γυμνα και τετραχηλισμενα τοις οφθαλμοις αυτου προς ον ημιν ο λογος
Hebrews 4:13 Neither is there any creature that is not manifest in his sight: but all things are naked and opened unto the eyes of him with whom we have to do.
Hebrews 4:14 εχοντες ουν αρχιερεα μεγαν διεληλυθοτα τους ουρανους ιησουν τον υιον του θεου κρατωμεν της ομολογιας
Hebrews 4:14 Seeing then that we have a great high priest, that is passed into the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our profession.
Hebrews 4:15 ου γαρ εχομεν αρχιερεα μη δυναμενον συμπαθησαι ταις ασθενειαις ημων πεπειραμενον δε κατα παντα καθ ομοιοτητα χωρις αμαρτιας
Hebrews 4:15 For we have not an high priest which cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities; but was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin.
Hebrews 4:16 προσερχωμεθα ουν μετα παρρησιας τω θρονω της χαριτος ινα λαβωμεν ελεον και χαριν ευρωμεν εις ευκαιρον βοηθειαν
Hebrews 4:16 Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy, and find grace to help in time of need.
Hebrews 5:1 πας γαρ αρχιερευς εξ ανθρωπων λαμβανομενος υπερ ανθρωπων καθισταται τα προς τον θεον ινα προσφερη δωρα τε και θυσιας υπερ αμαρτιων
Hebrews 5:1 For every high priest taken from among men is ordained for men in things pertaining to God, that he may offer both gifts and sacrifices for sins:
Hebrews 5:2 μετριοπαθειν δυναμενος τοις αγνοουσιν και πλανωμενοις επει και αυτος περικειται ασθενειαν
Hebrews 5:2 Who can have compassion on the ignorant, and on them that are out of the way; for that he himself also is compassed with infirmity.
Hebrews 5:3 και δια ταυτην οφειλει καθως περι του λαου ουτως και περι εαυτου προσφερειν υπερ αμαρτιων
Hebrews 5:3 And by reason hereof he ought, as for the people, so also for himself, to offer for sins.
Hebrews 5:4 και ουχ εαυτω τις λαμβανει την τιμην αλλα ο καλουμενος υπο του θεου καθαπερ και ο ααρων
Hebrews 5:4 And no man taketh this honour unto himself, but he that is called of God, as was Aaron.
Hebrews 5:5 ουτως και ο χριστος ουχ εαυτον εδοξασεν γενηθηναι αρχιερεα αλλ ο λαλησας προς αυτον υιος μου ει συ εγω σημερον γεγεννηκα σε
Hebrews 5:5 So also Christ glorified not himself to be made an high priest; but he that said unto him, Thou art my Son, to day have I begotten thee.
Hebrews 5:6 καθως και εν ετερω λεγει συ ιερευς εις τον αιωνα κατα την ταξιν μελχισεδεκ
Hebrews 5:6 As he saith also in another place, Thou art a priest for ever after the order of Melchisedec.
Hebrews 5:7 ος εν ταις ημεραις της σαρκος αυτου δεησεις τε και ικετηριας προς τον δυναμενον σωζειν αυτον εκ θανατου μετα κραυγης ισχυρας και δακρυων προσενεγκας και εισακουσθεις απο της ευλαβειας
Hebrews 5:7 Who in the days of his flesh, when he had offered up prayers and supplications with strong crying and tears unto him that was able to save him from death, and was heard in that he feared;
Hebrews 5:8 καιπερ ων υιος εμαθεν αφ ων επαθεν την υπακοην
Hebrews 5:8 Though he were a Son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered;
Hebrews 5:9 και τελειωθεις εγενετο τοις υπακουουσιν αυτω πασιν αιτιος σωτηριας αιωνιου
Hebrews 5:9 And being made perfect, he became the author of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him;
Hebrews 5:10 προσαγορευθεις υπο του θεου αρχιερευς κατα την ταξιν μελχισεδεκ
Hebrews 5:10 Called of God an high priest after the order of Melchisedec.
Hebrews 5:11 περι ου πολυς ημιν ο λογος και δυσερμηνευτος λεγειν επει νωθροι γεγονατε ταις ακοαις
Hebrews 5:11 Of whom we have many things to say, and hard to be uttered, seeing ye are dull of hearing.
Hebrews 5:12 και γαρ οφειλοντες ειναι διδασκαλοι δια τον χρονον παλιν χρειαν εχετε του διδασκειν υμας τινα τα στοιχεια της αρχης των λογιων του θεου και γεγονατε χρειαν εχοντες γαλακτος και ου στερεας τροφης
Hebrews 5:12 For when for the time ye ought to be teachers, ye have need that one teach you again which be the first principles of the oracles of God; and are become such as have need of milk, and not of strong meat.
Hebrews 5:13 πας γαρ ο μετεχων γαλακτος απειρος λογου δικαιοσυνης νηπιος γαρ εστιν
Hebrews 5:13 For every one that useth milk is unskilful in the word of righteousness: for he is a babe.
Hebrews 5:14 τελειων δε εστιν η στερεα τροφη των δια την εξιν τα αισθητηρια γεγυμνασμενα εχοντων προς διακρισιν καλου τε και κακου
Hebrews 5:14 But strong meat belongeth to them that are of full age, even those who by reason of use have their senses exercised to discern both good and evil.
Hebrews 6:1 διο αφεντες τον της αρχης του χριστου λογον επι την τελειοτητα φερωμεθα μη παλιν θεμελιον καταβαλλομενοι μετανοιας απο νεκρων εργων και πιστεως επι θεον
Hebrews 6:1 Therefore leaving the principles of the doctrine of Christ, let us go on unto perfection; not laying again the foundation of repentance from dead works, and of faith toward God,
Hebrews 6:2 βαπτισμων διδαχης επιθεσεως τε χειρων αναστασεως τε νεκρων και κριματος αιωνιου
Hebrews 6:2 Of the doctrine of baptisms, and of laying on of hands, and of resurrection of the dead, and of eternal judgment.
Hebrews 6:3 και τουτο ποιησομεν εανπερ επιτρεπη ο θεος
Hebrews 6:3 And this will we do, if God permit.
Hebrews 6:4 αδυνατον γαρ τους απαξ φωτισθεντας γευσαμενους τε της δωρεας της επουρανιου και μετοχους γενηθεντας πνευματος αγιου
Hebrews 6:4 For it is impossible for those who were once enlightened, and have tasted of the heavenly gift, and were made partakers of the Holy Ghost,
Hebrews 6:5 και καλον γευσαμενους θεου ρημα δυναμεις τε μελλοντος αιωνος
Hebrews 6:5 And have tasted the good word of God, and the powers of the world to come,
Hebrews 6:6 και παραπεσοντας παλιν ανακαινιζειν εις μετανοιαν ανασταυρουντας εαυτοις τον υιον του θεου και παραδειγματιζοντας
Hebrews 6:6 If they shall fall away, to renew them again unto repentance; seeing they crucify to themselves the Son of God afresh, and put him to an open shame.
Hebrews 6:7 γη γαρ η πιουσα τον επ αυτης πολλακις ερχομενον υετον και τικτουσα βοτανην ευθετον εκεινοις δι ους και γεωργειται μεταλαμβανει ευλογιας απο του θεου
Hebrews 6:7 For the earth which drinketh in the rain that cometh oft upon it, and bringeth forth herbs meet for them by whom it is dressed, receiveth blessing from God:
Hebrews 6:8 εκφερουσα δε ακανθας και τριβολους αδοκιμος και καταρας εγγυς ης το τελος εις καυσιν
Hebrews 6:8 But that which beareth thorns and briers is rejected, and is nigh unto cursing; whose end is to be burned.
Hebrews 6:9 πεπεισμεθα δε περι υμων αγαπητοι τα κρειττονα και εχομενα σωτηριας ει και ουτως λαλουμεν
Hebrews 6:9 But, beloved, we are persuaded better things of you, and things that accompany salvation, though we thus speak.
Hebrews 6:10 ου γαρ αδικος ο θεος επιλαθεσθαι του εργου υμων και του κοπου της αγαπης ης ενεδειξασθε εις το ονομα αυτου διακονησαντες τοις αγιοις και διακονουντες
Hebrews 6:10 For God is not unrighteous to forget your work and labour of love, which ye have shewed toward his name, in that ye have ministered to the saints, and do minister.
Hebrews 6:11 επιθυμουμεν δε εκαστον υμων την αυτην ενδεικνυσθαι σπουδην προς την πληροφοριαν της ελπιδος αχρι τελους
Hebrews 6:11 And we desire that every one of you do shew the same diligence to the full assurance of hope unto the end:
Hebrews 6:12 ινα μη νωθροι γενησθε μιμηται δε των δια πιστεως και μακροθυμιας κληρονομουντων τας επαγγελιας
Hebrews 6:12 That ye be not slothful, but followers of them who through faith and patience inherit the promises.
Hebrews 6:13 τω γαρ αβρααμ επαγγειλαμενος ο θεος επει κατ ουδενος ειχεν μειζονος ομοσαι ωμοσεν καθ εαυτου
Hebrews 6:13 For when God made promise to Abraham, because he could swear by no greater, he sware by himself,
Hebrews 6:14 λεγων η μην ευλογων ευλογησω σε και πληθυνων πληθυνω σε
Hebrews 6:14 Saying, Surely blessing I will bless thee, and multiplying I will multiply thee.
Hebrews 6:15 και ουτως μακροθυμησας επετυχεν της επαγγελιας
Hebrews 6:15 And so, after he had patiently endured, he obtained the promise.
Hebrews 6:16 ανθρωποι μεν γαρ κατα του μειζονος ομνυουσιν και πασης αυτοις αντιλογιας περας εις βεβαιωσιν ο ορκος
Hebrews 6:16 For men verily swear by the greater: and an oath for confirmation is to them an end of all strife.
Hebrews 6:17 εν ω περισσοτερον βουλομενος ο θεος επιδειξαι τοις κληρονομοις της επαγγελιας το αμεταθετον της βουλης αυτου εμεσιτευσεν ορκω
Hebrews 6:17 Wherein God, willing more abundantly to shew unto the heirs of promise the immutability of his counsel, confirmed it by an oath:
Hebrews 6:18 ινα δια δυο πραγματων αμεταθετων εν οις αδυνατον ψευσασθαι θεον ισχυραν παρακλησιν εχωμεν οι καταφυγοντες κρατησαι της προκειμενης ελπιδος
Hebrews 6:18 That by two immutable things, in which it was impossible for God to lie, we might have a strong consolation, who have fled for refuge to lay hold upon the hope set before us:
Hebrews 6:19 ην ως αγκυραν εχομεν της ψυχης ασφαλη τε και βεβαιαν και εισερχομενην εις το εσωτερον του καταπετασματος
Hebrews 6:19 Which hope we have as an anchor of the soul, both sure and stedfast, and which entereth into that within the veil;
Hebrews 6:20 οπου προδρομος υπερ ημων εισηλθεν ιησους κατα την ταξιν μελχισεδεκ αρχιερευς γενομενος εις τον αιωνα
Hebrews 6:20 Whither the forerunner is for us entered, even Jesus, made an high priest for ever after the order of Melchisedec.
Hebrews 7:1 ουτος γαρ ο μελχισεδεκ βασιλευς σαλημ ιερευς του θεου του υψιστου ο συναντησας αβρααμ υποστρεφοντι απο της κοπης των βασιλεων και ευλογησας αυτον
Hebrews 7:1 For this Melchisedec, king of Salem, priest of the most high God, who met Abraham returning from the slaughter of the kings, and blessed him;
Hebrews 7:2 ω και δεκατην απο παντων εμερισεν αβρααμ πρωτον μεν ερμηνευομενος βασιλευς δικαιοσυνης επειτα δε και βασιλευς σαλημ ο εστιν βασιλευς ειρηνης
Hebrews 7:2 To whom also Abraham gave a tenth part of all; first being by interpretation King of righteousness, and after that also King of Salem, which is, King of peace;
Hebrews 7:3 απατωρ αμητωρ αγενεαλογητος μητε αρχην ημερων μητε ζωης τελος εχων αφωμοιωμενος δε τω υιω του θεου μενει ιερευς εις το διηνεκες
Hebrews 7:3 Without father, without mother, without descent, having neither beginning of days, nor end of life; but made like unto the Son of God; abideth a priest continually.
Hebrews 7:4 θεωρειτε δε πηλικος ουτος ω και δεκατην αβρααμ εδωκεν εκ των ακροθινιων ο πατριαρχης
Hebrews 7:4 Now consider how great this man was, unto whom even the patriarch Abraham gave the tenth of the spoils.
Hebrews 7:5 και οι μεν εκ των υιων λευι την ιερατειαν λαμβανοντες εντολην εχουσιν αποδεκατουν τον λαον κατα τον νομον τουτεστιν τους αδελφους αυτων καιπερ εξεληλυθοτας εκ της οσφυος αβρααμ
Hebrews 7:5 And verily they that are of the sons of Levi, who receive the office of the priesthood, have a commandment to take tithes of the people according to the law, that is, of their brethren, though they come out of the loins of Abraham:
Hebrews 7:6 ο δε μη γενεαλογουμενος εξ αυτων δεδεκατωκεν τον αβρααμ και τον εχοντα τας επαγγελιας ευλογηκεν
Hebrews 7:6 But he whose descent is not counted from them received tithes of Abraham, and blessed him that had the promises.
Hebrews 7:7 χωρις δε πασης αντιλογιας το ελαττον υπο του κρειττονος ευλογειται
Hebrews 7:7 And without all contradiction the less is blessed of the better.
Hebrews 7:8 και ωδε μεν δεκατας αποθνησκοντες ανθρωποι λαμβανουσιν εκει δε μαρτυρουμενος οτι ζη
Hebrews 7:8 And here men that die receive tithes; but there he receiveth them, of whom it is witnessed that he liveth.
Hebrews 7:9 και ως επος ειπειν δια αβρααμ και λευι ο δεκατας λαμβανων δεδεκατωται
Hebrews 7:9 And as I may so say, Levi also, who receiveth tithes, payed tithes in Abraham.
Hebrews 7:10 ετι γαρ εν τη οσφυι του πατρος ην οτε συνηντησεν αυτω ο μελχισεδεκ
Hebrews 7:10 For he was yet in the loins of his father, when Melchisedec met him.
Hebrews 7:11 ει μεν ουν τελειωσις δια της λευιτικης ιερωσυνης ην ο λαος γαρ επ αυτη νενομοθετητο τις ετι χρεια κατα την ταξιν μελχισεδεκ ετερον ανιστασθαι ιερεα και ου κατα την ταξιν ααρων λεγεσθαι
Hebrews 7:11 If therefore perfection were by the Levitical priesthood, (for under it the people received the law,) what further need was there that another priest should rise after the order of Melchisedec, and not be called after the order of Aaron?
Hebrews 7:12 μετατιθεμενης γαρ της ιερωσυνης εξ αναγκης και νομου μεταθεσις γινεται
Hebrews 7:12 For the priesthood being changed, there is made of necessity a change also of the law.
Hebrews 7:13 εφ ον γαρ λεγεται ταυτα φυλης ετερας μετεσχηκεν αφ ης ουδεις προσεσχηκεν τω θυσιαστηριω
Hebrews 7:13 For he of whom these things are spoken pertaineth to another tribe, of which no man gave attendance at the altar.
Hebrews 7:14 προδηλον γαρ οτι εξ ιουδα ανατεταλκεν ο κυριος ημων εις ην φυλην ουδεν περι ιερωσυνης μωσης ελαλησεν
Hebrews 7:14 For it is evident that our Lord sprang out of Juda; of which tribe Moses spake nothing concerning priesthood.
Hebrews 7:15 και περισσοτερον ετι καταδηλον εστιν ει κατα την ομοιοτητα μελχισεδεκ ανισταται ιερευς ετερος
Hebrews 7:15 And it is yet far more evident: for that after the similitude of Melchisedec there ariseth another priest,
Hebrews 7:16 ος ου κατα νομον εντολης σαρκικης γεγονεν αλλα κατα δυναμιν ζωης ακαταλυτου
Hebrews 7:16 Who is made, not after the law of a carnal commandment, but after the power of an endless life.
Hebrews 7:17 μαρτυρει γαρ οτι συ ιερευς εις τον αιωνα κατα την ταξιν μελχισεδεκ
Hebrews 7:17 For he testifieth, Thou art a priest for ever after the order of Melchisedec.
Hebrews 7:18 αθετησις μεν γαρ γινεται προαγουσης εντολης δια το αυτης ασθενες και ανωφελες
Hebrews 7:18 For there is verily a disannulling of the commandment going before for the weakness and unprofitableness thereof.
Hebrews 7:19 ουδεν γαρ ετελειωσεν ο νομος επεισαγωγη δε κρειττονος ελπιδος δι ης εγγιζομεν τω θεω
Hebrews 7:19 For the law made nothing perfect, but the bringing in of a better hope did; by the which we draw nigh unto God.
Hebrews 7:20 και καθ οσον ου χωρις ορκωμοσιας οι μεν γαρ χωρις ορκωμοσιας εισιν ιερεις γεγονοτες
Hebrews 7:20 And inasmuch as not without an oath he was made priest:
Hebrews 7:21 ο δε μετα ορκωμοσιας δια του λεγοντος προς αυτον ωμοσεν κυριος και ου μεταμεληθησεται συ ιερευς εις τον αιωνα κατα την ταξιν μελχισεδεκ
Hebrews 7:21 (For those priests were made without an oath; but this with an oath by him that said unto him, The Lord sware and will not repent, Thou art a priest for ever after the order of Melchisedec:)
Hebrews 7:22 κατα τοσουτον κρειττονος διαθηκης γεγονεν εγγυος ιησους
Hebrews 7:22 By so much was Jesus made a surety of a better testament.
Hebrews 7:23 και οι μεν πλειονες εισιν γεγονοτες ιερεις δια το θανατω κωλυεσθαι παραμενειν
Hebrews 7:23 And they truly were many priests, because they were not suffered to continue by reason of death:
Hebrews 7:24 ο δε δια το μενειν αυτον εις τον αιωνα απαραβατον εχει την ιερωσυνην
Hebrews 7:24 But this man, because he continueth ever, hath an unchangeable priesthood.
Hebrews 7:25 οθεν και σωζειν εις το παντελες δυναται τους προσερχομενους δι αυτου τω θεω παντοτε ζων εις το εντυγχανειν υπερ αυτων
Hebrews 7:25 Wherefore he is able also to save them to the uttermost that come unto God by him, seeing he ever liveth to make intercession for them.
Hebrews 7:26 τοιουτος γαρ ημιν επρεπεν αρχιερευς οσιος ακακος αμιαντος κεχωρισμενος απο των αμαρτωλων και υψηλοτερος των ουρανων γενομενος
Hebrews 7:26 For such an high priest became us, who is holy, harmless, undefiled, separate from sinners, and made higher than the heavens;
Hebrews 7:27 ος ουκ εχει καθ ημεραν αναγκην ωσπερ οι αρχιερεις προτερον υπερ των ιδιων αμαρτιων θυσιας αναφερειν επειτα των του λαου τουτο γαρ εποιησεν εφαπαξ εαυτον ανενεγκας
Hebrews 7:27 Who needeth not daily, as those high priests, to offer up sacrifice, first for his own sins, and then for the people's: for this he did once, when he offered up himself.
Hebrews 7:28 ο νομος γαρ ανθρωπους καθιστησιν αρχιερεις εχοντας ασθενειαν ο λογος δε της ορκωμοσιας της μετα τον νομον υιον εις τον αιωνα τετελειωμενον
Hebrews 7:28 For the law maketh men high priests which have infirmity; but the word of the oath, which was since the law, maketh the Son, who is consecrated for evermore.
Hebrews 8:1 κεφαλαιον δε επι τοις λεγομενοις τοιουτον εχομεν αρχιερεα ος εκαθισεν εν δεξια του θρονου της μεγαλωσυνης εν τοις ουρανοις
Hebrews 8:1 Now of the things which we have spoken this is the sum: We have such an high priest, who is set on the right hand of the throne of the Majesty in the heavens;
Hebrews 8:2 των αγιων λειτουργος και της σκηνης της αληθινης ην επηξεν ο κυριος και ουκ ανθρωπος
Hebrews 8:2 A minister of the sanctuary, and of the true tabernacle, which the Lord pitched, and not man.
Hebrews 8:3 πας γαρ αρχιερευς εις το προσφερειν δωρα τε και θυσιας καθισταται οθεν αναγκαιον εχειν τι και τουτον ο προσενεγκη
Hebrews 8:3 For every high priest is ordained to offer gifts and sacrifices: wherefore it is of necessity that this man have somewhat also to offer.
Hebrews 8:4 ει μεν γαρ ην επι γης ουδ αν ην ιερευς οντων των ιερεων των προσφεροντων κατα τον νομον τα δωρα
Hebrews 8:4 For if he were on earth, he should not be a priest, seeing that there are priests that offer gifts according to the law:
Hebrews 8:5 οιτινες υποδειγματι και σκια λατρευουσιν των επουρανιων καθως κεχρηματισται μωσης μελλων επιτελειν την σκηνην ορα γαρ φησιν ποιησης παντα κατα τον τυπον τον δειχθεντα σοι εν τω ορει
Hebrews 8:5 Who serve unto the example and shadow of heavenly things, as Moses was admonished of God when he was about to make the tabernacle: for, See, saith he, that thou make all things according to the pattern shewed to thee in the mount.
Hebrews 8:6 νυνι δε διαφορωτερας τετευχεν λειτουργιας οσω και κρειττονος εστιν διαθηκης μεσιτης ητις επι κρειττοσιν επαγγελιαις νενομοθετηται
Hebrews 8:6 But now hath he obtained a more excellent ministry, by how much also he is the mediator of a better covenant, which was established upon better promises.
Hebrews 8:7 ει γαρ η πρωτη εκεινη ην αμεμπτος ουκ αν δευτερας εζητειτο τοπος
Hebrews 8:7 For if that first covenant had been faultless, then should no place have been sought for the second.
Hebrews 8:8 μεμφομενος γαρ αυτοις λεγει ιδου ημεραι ερχονται λεγει κυριος και συντελεσω επι τον οικον ισραηλ και επι τον οικον ιουδα διαθηκην καινην
Hebrews 8:8 For finding fault with them, he saith, Behold, the days come, saith the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah:
Hebrews 8:9 ου κατα την διαθηκην ην εποιησα τοις πατρασιν αυτων εν ημερα επιλαβομενου μου της χειρος αυτων εξαγαγειν αυτους εκ γης αιγυπτου οτι αυτοι ουκ ενεμειναν εν τη διαθηκη μου καγω ημελησα αυτων λεγει κυριος
Hebrews 8:9 Not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day when I took them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt; because they continued not in my covenant, and I regarded them not, saith the Lord.
Hebrews 8:10 οτι αυτη η διαθηκη ην διαθησομαι τω οικω ισραηλ μετα τας ημερας εκεινας λεγει κυριος διδους νομους μου εις την διανοιαν αυτων και επι καρδιας αυτων επιγραψω αυτους και εσομαι αυτοις εις θεον και αυτοι εσονται μοι εις λαον
Hebrews 8:10 For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, saith the Lord; I will put my laws into their mind, and write them in their hearts: and I will be to them a God, and they shall be to me a people:
Hebrews 8:11 και ου μη διδαξωσιν εκαστος τον πλησιον αυτου και εκαστος τον αδελφον αυτου λεγων γνωθι τον κυριον οτι παντες ειδησουσιν με απο μικρου αυτων εως μεγαλου αυτων
Hebrews 8:11 And they shall not teach every man his neighbour, and every man his brother, saying, Know the Lord: for all shall know me, from the least to the greatest.
Hebrews 8:12 οτι ιλεως εσομαι ταις αδικιαις αυτων και των αμαρτιων αυτων και των ανομιων αυτων ου μη μνησθω ετι
Hebrews 8:12 For I will be merciful to their unrighteousness, and their sins and their iniquities will I remember no more.
Hebrews 8:13 εν τω λεγειν καινην πεπαλαιωκεν την πρωτην το δε παλαιουμενον και γηρασκον εγγυς αφανισμου
Hebrews 8:13 In that he saith, A new covenant, he hath made the first old.  Now that which decayeth and waxeth old is ready to vanish away.
Hebrews 9:1 ειχεν μεν ουν και η πρωτη σκηνη δικαιωματα λατρειας το τε αγιον κοσμικον
Hebrews 9:1 Then verily the first covenant had also ordinances of divine service, and a worldly sanctuary.
Hebrews 9:2 σκηνη γαρ κατεσκευασθη η πρωτη εν η η τε λυχνια και η τραπεζα και η προθεσις των αρτων ητις λεγεται αγια
Hebrews 9:2 For there was a tabernacle made; the first, wherein was the candlestick, and the table, and the shewbread; which is called the sanctuary.
Hebrews 9:3 μετα δε το δευτερον καταπετασμα σκηνη η λεγομενη αγια αγιων
Hebrews 9:3 And after the second veil, the tabernacle which is called the Holiest of all;
Hebrews 9:4 χρυσουν εχουσα θυμιατηριον και την κιβωτον της διαθηκης περικεκαλυμμενην παντοθεν χρυσιω εν η σταμνος χρυση εχουσα το μαννα και η ραβδος ααρων η βλαστησασα και αι πλακες της διαθηκης
Hebrews 9:4 Which had the golden censer, and the ark of the covenant overlaid round about with gold, wherein was the golden pot that had manna, and Aaron's rod that budded, and the tables of the covenant;
Hebrews 9:5 υπερανω δε αυτης χερουβιμ δοξης κατασκιαζοντα το ιλαστηριον περι ων ουκ εστιν νυν λεγειν κατα μερος
Hebrews 9:5 And over it the cherubims of glory shadowing the mercyseat; of which we cannot now speak particularly.
Hebrews 9:6 τουτων δε ουτως κατεσκευασμενων εις μεν την πρωτην σκηνην διαπαντος εισιασιν οι ιερεις τας λατρειας επιτελουντες
Hebrews 9:6 Now when these things were thus ordained, the priests went always into the first tabernacle, accomplishing the service of God.
Hebrews 9:7 εις δε την δευτεραν απαξ του ενιαυτου μονος ο αρχιερευς ου χωρις αιματος ο προσφερει υπερ εαυτου και των του λαου αγνοηματων
Hebrews 9:7 But into the second went the high priest alone once every year, not without blood, which he offered for himself, and for the errors of the people:
Hebrews 9:8 τουτο δηλουντος του πνευματος του αγιου μηπω πεφανερωσθαι την των αγιων οδον ετι της πρωτης σκηνης εχουσης στασιν
Hebrews 9:8 The Holy Ghost this signifying, that the way into the holiest of all was not yet made manifest, while as the first tabernacle was yet standing:
Hebrews 9:9 ητις παραβολη εις τον καιρον τον ενεστηκοτα καθ ον δωρα τε και θυσιαι προσφερονται μη δυναμεναι κατα συνειδησιν τελειωσαι τον λατρευοντα
Hebrews 9:9 Which was a figure for the time then present, in which were offered both gifts and sacrifices, that could not make him that did the service perfect, as pertaining to the conscience;
Hebrews 9:10 μονον επι βρωμασιν και πομασιν και διαφοροις βαπτισμοις και δικαιωμασιν σαρκος μεχρι καιρου διορθωσεως επικειμενα
Hebrews 9:10 Which stood only in meats and drinks, and divers washings, and carnal ordinances, imposed on them until the time of reformation.
Hebrews 9:11 χριστος δε παραγενομενος αρχιερευς των μελλοντων αγαθων δια της μειζονος και τελειοτερας σκηνης ου χειροποιητου τουτεστιν ου ταυτης της κτισεως
Hebrews 9:11 But Christ being come an high priest of good things to come, by a greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this building;
Hebrews 9:12 ουδε δι αιματος τραγων και μοσχων δια δε του ιδιου αιματος εισηλθεν εφαπαξ εις τα αγια αιωνιαν λυτρωσιν ευραμενος
Hebrews 9:12 Neither by the blood of goats and calves, but by his own blood he entered in once into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us.
Hebrews 9:13 ει γαρ το αιμα ταυρων και τραγων και σποδος δαμαλεως ραντιζουσα τους κεκοινωμενους αγιαζει προς την της σαρκος καθαροτητα
Hebrews 9:13 For if the blood of bulls and of goats, and the ashes of an heifer sprinkling the unclean, sanctifieth to the purifying of the flesh:
Hebrews 9:14 ποσω μαλλον το αιμα του χριστου ος δια πνευματος αιωνιου εαυτον προσηνεγκεν αμωμον τω θεω καθαριει την συνειδησιν υμων απο νεκρων εργων εις το λατρευειν θεω ζωντι
Hebrews 9:14 How much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without spot to God, purge your conscience from dead works to serve the living God?
Hebrews 9:15 και δια τουτο διαθηκης καινης μεσιτης εστιν οπως θανατου γενομενου εις απολυτρωσιν των επι τη πρωτη διαθηκη παραβασεων την επαγγελιαν λαβωσιν οι κεκλημενοι της αιωνιου κληρονομιας
Hebrews 9:15 And for this cause he is the mediator of the new testament, that by means of death, for the redemption of the transgressions that were under the first testament, they which are called might receive the promise of eternal inheritance.
Hebrews 9:16 οπου γαρ διαθηκη θανατον αναγκη φερεσθαι του διαθεμενου
Hebrews 9:16 For where a testament is, there must also of necessity be the death of the testator.
Hebrews 9:17 διαθηκη γαρ επι νεκροις βεβαια επει μηποτε ισχυει οτε ζη ο διαθεμενος
Hebrews 9:17 For a testament is of force after men are dead: otherwise it is of no strength at all while the testator liveth.
Hebrews 9:18 οθεν ουδ η πρωτη χωρις αιματος εγκεκαινισται
Hebrews 9:18 Whereupon neither the first testament was dedicated without blood.
Hebrews 9:19 λαληθεισης γαρ πασης εντολης κατα νομον υπο μωυσεως παντι τω λαω λαβων το αιμα των μοσχων και τραγων μετα υδατος και εριου κοκκινου και υσσωπου αυτο τε το βιβλιον και παντα τον λαον ερραντισεν
Hebrews 9:19 For when Moses had spoken every precept to all the people according to the law, he took the blood of calves and of goats, with water, and scarlet wool, and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book, and all the people,
Hebrews 9:20 λεγων τουτο το αιμα της διαθηκης ης ενετειλατο προς υμας ο θεος
Hebrews 9:20 Saying, This is the blood of the testament which God hath enjoined unto you.
Hebrews 9:21 και την σκηνην δε και παντα τα σκευη της λειτουργιας τω αιματι ομοιως ερραντισεν
Hebrews 9:21 Moreover he sprinkled with blood both the tabernacle, and all the vessels of the ministry.
Hebrews 9:22 και σχεδον εν αιματι παντα καθαριζεται κατα τον νομον και χωρις αιματεκχυσιας ου γινεται αφεσις
Hebrews 9:22 And almost all things are by the law purged with blood; and without shedding of blood is no remission.
Hebrews 9:23 αναγκη ουν τα μεν υποδειγματα των εν τοις ουρανοις τουτοις καθαριζεσθαι αυτα δε τα επουρανια κρειττοσιν θυσιαις παρα ταυτας
Hebrews 9:23 It was therefore necessary that the patterns of things in the heavens should be purified with these; but the heavenly things themselves with better sacrifices than these.
Hebrews 9:24 ου γαρ εις χειροποιητα αγια εισηλθεν ο χριστος αντιτυπα των αληθινων αλλ εις αυτον τον ουρανον νυν εμφανισθηναι τω προσωπω του θεου υπερ ημων
Hebrews 9:24 For Christ is not entered into the holy places made with hands, which are the figures of the true; but into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God for us:
Hebrews 9:25 ουδ ινα πολλακις προσφερη εαυτον ωσπερ ο αρχιερευς εισερχεται εις τα αγια κατ ενιαυτον εν αιματι αλλοτριω
Hebrews 9:25 Nor yet that he should offer himself often, as the high priest entereth into the holy place every year with blood of others;
Hebrews 9:26 επει εδει αυτον πολλακις παθειν απο καταβολης κοσμου νυν δε απαξ επι συντελεια των αιωνων εις αθετησιν αμαρτιας δια της θυσιας αυτου πεφανερωται
Hebrews 9:26 For then must he often have suffered since the foundation of the world: but now once in the end of the world hath he appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself.
Hebrews 9:27 και καθ οσον αποκειται τοις ανθρωποις απαξ αποθανειν μετα δε τουτο κρισις
Hebrews 9:27 And as it is appointed unto men once to die, but after this the judgment:
Hebrews 9:28 ουτως ο χριστος απαξ προσενεχθεις εις το πολλων ανενεγκειν αμαρτιας εκ δευτερου χωρις αμαρτιας οφθησεται τοις αυτον απεκδεχομενοις εις σωτηριαν
Hebrews 9:28 So Christ was once offered to bear the sins of many; and unto them that look for him shall he appear the second time without sin unto salvation.
Hebrews 10:1 σκιαν γαρ εχων ο νομος των μελλοντων αγαθων ουκ αυτην την εικονα των πραγματων κατ ενιαυτον ταις αυταις θυσιαις ας προσφερουσιν εις το διηνεκες ουδεποτε δυναται τους προσερχομενους τελειωσαι
Hebrews 10:1 For the law having a shadow of good things to come, and not the very image of the things, can never with those sacrifices which they offered year by year continually make the comers thereunto perfect.
Hebrews 10:2 επει ουκ αν επαυσαντο προσφερομεναι δια το μηδεμιαν εχειν ετι συνειδησιν αμαρτιων τους λατρευοντας απαξ κεκαθαρμενους
Hebrews 10:2 For then would they not have ceased to be offered? because that the worshippers once purged should have had no more conscience of sins.
Hebrews 10:3 αλλ εν αυταις αναμνησις αμαρτιων κατ ενιαυτον
Hebrews 10:3 But in those sacrifices there is a remembrance again made of sins every year.
Hebrews 10:4 αδυνατον γαρ αιμα ταυρων και τραγων αφαιρειν αμαρτιας
Hebrews 10:4 For it is not possible that the blood of bulls and of goats should take away sins.
Hebrews 10:5 διο εισερχομενος εις τον κοσμον λεγει θυσιαν και προσφοραν ουκ ηθελησας σωμα δε κατηρτισω μοι
Hebrews 10:5 Wherefore when he cometh into the world, he saith, Sacrifice and offering thou wouldest not, but a body hast thou prepared me:
Hebrews 10:6 ολοκαυτωματα και περι αμαρτιας ουκ ευδοκησας
Hebrews 10:6 In burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin thou hast had no pleasure.
Hebrews 10:7 τοτε ειπον ιδου ηκω εν κεφαλιδι βιβλιου γεγραπται περι εμου του ποιησαι ο θεος το θελημα σου
Hebrews 10:7 Then said I, Lo, I come (in the volume of the book it is written of me,) to do thy will, O God.
Hebrews 10:8 ανωτερον λεγων οτι θυσιαν και προσφοραν και ολοκαυτωματα και περι αμαρτιας ουκ ηθελησας ουδε ευδοκησας αιτινες κατα τον νομον προσφερονται
Hebrews 10:8 Above when he said, Sacrifice and offering and burnt offerings and offering for sin thou wouldest not, neither hadst pleasure therein; which are offered by the law;
Hebrews 10:9 τοτε ειρηκεν ιδου ηκω του ποιησαι ο θεος το θελημα σου αναιρει το πρωτον ινα το δευτερον στηση
Hebrews 10:9 Then said he, Lo, I come to do thy will, O God. He taketh away the first, that he may establish the second.
Hebrews 10:10 εν ω θεληματι ηγιασμενοι εσμεν οι δια της προσφορας του σωματος του ιησου χριστου εφαπαξ
Hebrews 10:10 By the which will we are sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all.
Hebrews 10:11 και πας μεν ιερευς εστηκεν καθ ημεραν λειτουργων και τας αυτας πολλακις προσφερων θυσιας αιτινες ουδεποτε δυνανται περιελειν αμαρτιας
Hebrews 10:11 And every priest standeth daily ministering and offering oftentimes the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins:
Hebrews 10:12 αυτος δε μιαν υπερ αμαρτιων προσενεγκας θυσιαν εις το διηνεκες εκαθισεν εν δεξια του θεου
Hebrews 10:12 But this man, after he had offered one sacrifice for sins for ever, sat down on the right hand of God;
Hebrews 10:13 το λοιπον εκδεχομενος εως τεθωσιν οι εχθροι αυτου υποποδιον των ποδων αυτου
Hebrews 10:13 From henceforth expecting till his enemies be made his footstool.
Hebrews 10:14 μια γαρ προσφορα τετελειωκεν εις το διηνεκες τους αγιαζομενους
Hebrews 10:14 For by one offering he hath perfected for ever them that are sanctified.
Hebrews 10:15 μαρτυρει δε ημιν και το πνευμα το αγιον μετα γαρ το προειρηκεναι
Hebrews 10:15 Whereof the Holy Ghost also is a witness to us: for after that he had said before,
Hebrews 10:16 αυτη η διαθηκη ην διαθησομαι προς αυτους μετα τας ημερας εκεινας λεγει κυριος διδους νομους μου επι καρδιας αυτων και επι των διανοιων αυτων επιγραψω αυτους
Hebrews 10:16 This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days, saith the Lord, I will put my laws into their hearts, and in their minds will I write them;
Hebrews 10:17 και των αμαρτιων αυτων και των ανομιων αυτων ου μη μνησθω ετι
Hebrews 10:17 And their sins and iniquities will I remember no more.
Hebrews 10:18 οπου δε αφεσις τουτων ουκετι προσφορα περι αμαρτιας
Hebrews 10:18 Now where remission of these is, there is no more offering for sin.
Hebrews 10:19 εχοντες ουν αδελφοι παρρησιαν εις την εισοδον των αγιων εν τω αιματι ιησου
Hebrews 10:19 Having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holiest by the blood of Jesus,
Hebrews 10:20 ην ενεκαινισεν ημιν οδον προσφατον και ζωσαν δια του καταπετασματος τουτεστιν της σαρκος αυτου
Hebrews 10:20 By a new and living way, which he hath consecrated for us, through the veil, that is to say, his flesh;
Hebrews 10:21 και ιερεα μεγαν επι τον οικον του θεου
Hebrews 10:21 And having an high priest over the house of God;
Hebrews 10:22 προσερχωμεθα μετα αληθινης καρδιας εν πληροφορια πιστεως ερραντισμενοι τας καρδιας απο συνειδησεως πονηρας και λελουμενοι το σωμα υδατι καθαρω
Hebrews 10:22 Let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with pure water.
Hebrews 10:23 κατεχωμεν την ομολογιαν της ελπιδος ακλινη πιστος γαρ ο επαγγειλαμενος
Hebrews 10:23 Let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering; (for he is faithful that promised;)
Hebrews 10:24 και κατανοωμεν αλληλους εις παροξυσμον αγαπης και καλων εργων
Hebrews 10:24 And let us consider one another to provoke unto love and to good works:
Hebrews 10:25 μη εγκαταλειποντες την επισυναγωγην εαυτων καθως εθος τισιν αλλα παρακαλουντες και τοσουτω μαλλον οσω βλεπετε εγγιζουσαν την ημεραν
Hebrews 10:25 Not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as the manner of some is; but exhorting one another: and so much the more, as ye see the day approaching.
Hebrews 10:26 εκουσιως γαρ αμαρτανοντων ημων μετα το λαβειν την επιγνωσιν της αληθειας ουκετι περι αμαρτιων απολειπεται θυσια
Hebrews 10:26 For if we sin wilfully after that we have received the knowledge of the truth, there remaineth no more sacrifice for sins,
Hebrews 10:27 φοβερα δε τις εκδοχη κρισεως και πυρος ζηλος εσθιειν μελλοντος τους υπεναντιους
Hebrews 10:27 But a certain fearful looking for of judgment and fiery indignation, which shall devour the adversaries.
Hebrews 10:28 αθετησας τις νομον μωσεως χωρις οικτιρμων επι δυσιν η τρισιν μαρτυσιν αποθνησκει
Hebrews 10:28 He that despised Moses' law died without mercy under two or three witnesses:
Hebrews 10:29 ποσω δοκειτε χειρονος αξιωθησεται τιμωριας ο τον υιον του θεου καταπατησας και το αιμα της διαθηκης κοινον ηγησαμενος εν ω ηγιασθη και το πνευμα της χαριτος ενυβρισας
Hebrews 10:29 Of how much sorer punishment, suppose ye, shall he be thought worthy, who hath trodden under foot the Son of God, and hath counted the blood of the covenant, wherewith he was sanctified, an unholy thing, and hath done despite unto the Spirit of grace?
Hebrews 10:30 οιδαμεν γαρ τον ειποντα εμοι εκδικησις εγω ανταποδωσω λεγει κυριος και παλιν κυριος κρινει τον λαον αυτου
Hebrews 10:30 For we know him that hath said, Vengeance belongeth unto me, I will recompense, saith the Lord. And again, The Lord shall judge his people.
Hebrews 10:31 φοβερον το εμπεσειν εις χειρας θεου ζωντος
Hebrews 10:31 It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God.
Hebrews 10:32 αναμιμνησκεσθε δε τας προτερον ημερας εν αις φωτισθεντες πολλην αθλησιν υπεμεινατε παθηματων
Hebrews 10:32 But call to remembrance the former days, in which, after ye were illuminated, ye endured a great fight of afflictions;
Hebrews 10:33 τουτο μεν ονειδισμοις τε και θλιψεσιν θεατριζομενοι τουτο δε κοινωνοι των ουτως αναστρεφομενων γενηθεντες
Hebrews 10:33 Partly, whilst ye were made a gazingstock both by reproaches and afflictions; and partly, whilst ye became companions of them that were so used.
Hebrews 10:34 και γαρ τοις δεσμοις μου συνεπαθησατε και την αρπαγην των υπαρχοντων υμων μετα χαρας προσεδεξασθε γινωσκοντες εχειν εν εαυτοις κρειττονα υπαρξιν εν ουρανοις και μενουσαν
Hebrews 10:34 For ye had compassion of me in my bonds, and took joyfully the spoiling of your goods, knowing in yourselves that ye have in heaven a better and an enduring substance.
Hebrews 10:35 μη αποβαλητε ουν την παρρησιαν υμων ητις εχει μισθαποδοσιαν μεγαλην
Hebrews 10:35 Cast not away therefore your confidence, which hath great recompence of reward.
Hebrews 10:36 υπομονης γαρ εχετε χρειαν ινα το θελημα του θεου ποιησαντες κομισησθε την επαγγελιαν
Hebrews 10:36 For ye have need of patience, that, after ye have done the will of God, ye might receive the promise.
Hebrews 10:37 ετι γαρ μικρον οσον οσον ο ερχομενος ηξει και ου χρονιει
Hebrews 10:37 For yet a little while, and he that shall come will come, and will not tarry.
Hebrews 10:38 ο δε δικαιος εκ πιστεως ζησεται και εαν υποστειληται ουκ ευδοκει η ψυχη μου εν αυτω
Hebrews 10:38 Now the just shall live by faith: but if any man draw back, my soul shall have no pleasure in him.
Hebrews 10:39 ημεις δε ουκ εσμεν υποστολης εις απωλειαν αλλα πιστεως εις περιποιησιν ψυχης
Hebrews 10:39 But we are not of them who draw back unto perdition; but of them that believe to the saving of the soul.
Hebrews 11:1 εστιν δε πιστις ελπιζομενων υποστασις πραγματων ελεγχος ου βλεπομενων
Hebrews 11:1 Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen.
Hebrews 11:2 εν ταυτη γαρ εμαρτυρηθησαν οι πρεσβυτεροι
Hebrews 11:2 For by it the elders obtained a good report.
Hebrews 11:3 πιστει νοουμεν κατηρτισθαι τους αιωνας ρηματι θεου εις το μη εκ φαινομενων τα βλεπομενα γεγονεναι
Hebrews 11:3 Through faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the word of God, so that things which are seen were not made of things which do appear.
Hebrews 11:4 πιστει πλειονα θυσιαν αβελ παρα καιν προσηνεγκεν τω θεω δι ης εμαρτυρηθη ειναι δικαιος μαρτυρουντος επι τοις δωροις αυτου του θεου και δι αυτης αποθανων ετι λαλειται
Hebrews 11:4 By faith Abel offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, by which he obtained witness that he was righteous, God testifying of his gifts: and by it he being dead yet speaketh.
Hebrews 11:5 πιστει ενωχ μετετεθη του μη ιδειν θανατον και ουχ ευρισκετο διοτι μετεθηκεν αυτον ο θεος προ γαρ της μεταθεσεως αυτου μεμαρτυρηται ευηρεστηκεναι τω θεω
Hebrews 11:5 By faith Enoch was translated that he should not see death; and was not found, because God had translated him: for before his translation he had this testimony, that he pleased God.
Hebrews 11:6 χωρις δε πιστεως αδυνατον ευαρεστησαι πιστευσαι γαρ δει τον προσερχομενον τω θεω οτι εστιν και τοις εκζητουσιν αυτον μισθαποδοτης γινεται
Hebrews 11:6 But without faith it is impossible to please him: for he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him.
Hebrews 11:7 πιστει χρηματισθεις νωε περι των μηδεπω βλεπομενων ευλαβηθεις κατεσκευασεν κιβωτον εις σωτηριαν του οικου αυτου δι ης κατεκρινεν τον κοσμον και της κατα πιστιν δικαιοσυνης εγενετο κληρονομος
Hebrews 11:7 By faith Noah, being warned of God of things not seen as yet, moved with fear, prepared an ark to the saving of his house; by the which he condemned the world, and became heir of the righteousness which is by faith.
Hebrews 11:8 πιστει καλουμενος αβρααμ υπηκουσεν εξελθειν εις τον τοπον ον ημελλεν λαμβανειν εις κληρονομιαν και εξηλθεν μη επισταμενος που ερχεται
Hebrews 11:8 By faith Abraham, when he was called to go out into a place which he should after receive for an inheritance, obeyed; and he went out, not knowing whither he went.
Hebrews 11:9 πιστει παρωκησεν εις την γην της επαγγελιας ως αλλοτριαν εν σκηναις κατοικησας μετα ισαακ και ιακωβ των συγκληρονομων της επαγγελιας της αυτης
Hebrews 11:9 By faith he sojourned in the land of promise, as in a strange country, dwelling in tabernacles with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise:
Hebrews 11:10 εξεδεχετο γαρ την τους θεμελιους εχουσαν πολιν ης τεχνιτης και δημιουργος ο θεος
Hebrews 11:10 For he looked for a city which hath foundations, whose builder and maker is God.
Hebrews 11:11 πιστει και αυτη σαρρα δυναμιν εις καταβολην σπερματος ελαβεν και παρα καιρον ηλικιας ετεκεν επει πιστον ηγησατο τον επαγγειλαμενον
Hebrews 11:11 Through faith also Sara herself received strength to conceive seed, and was delivered of a child when she was past age, because she judged him faithful who had promised.
Hebrews 11:12 διο και αφ ενος εγεννηθησαν και ταυτα νενεκρωμενου καθως τα αστρα του ουρανου τω πληθει και ωσει αμμος η παρα το χειλος της θαλασσης η αναριθμητος
Hebrews 11:12 Therefore sprang there even of one, and him as good as dead, so many as the stars of the sky in multitude, and as the sand which is by the sea shore innumerable.
Hebrews 11:13 κατα πιστιν απεθανον ουτοι παντες μη λαβοντες τας επαγγελιας αλλα πορρωθεν αυτας ιδοντες και πεισθεντες και ασπασαμενοι και ομολογησαντες οτι ξενοι και παρεπιδημοι εισιν επι της γης
Hebrews 11:13 These all died in faith, not having received the promises, but having seen them afar off, and were persuaded of them, and embraced them, and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth.
Hebrews 11:14 οι γαρ τοιαυτα λεγοντες εμφανιζουσιν οτι πατριδα επιζητουσιν
Hebrews 11:14 For they that say such things declare plainly that they seek a country.
Hebrews 11:15 και ει μεν εκεινης εμνημονευον αφ ης εξηλθον ειχον αν καιρον ανακαμψαι
Hebrews 11:15 And truly, if they had been mindful of that country from whence they came out, they might have had opportunity to have returned.
Hebrews 11:16 νυνι δε κρειττονος ορεγονται τουτεστιν επουρανιου διο ουκ επαισχυνεται αυτους ο θεος θεος επικαλεισθαι αυτων ητοιμασεν γαρ αυτοις πολιν
Hebrews 11:16 But now they desire a better country, that is, an heavenly: wherefore God is not ashamed to be called their God: for he hath prepared for them a city.
Hebrews 11:17 πιστει προσενηνοχεν αβρααμ τον ισαακ πειραζομενος και τον μονογενη προσεφερεν ο τας επαγγελιας αναδεξαμενος
Hebrews 11:17 By faith Abraham, when he was tried, offered up Isaac: and he that had received the promises offered up his only begotten son,
Hebrews 11:18 προς ον ελαληθη οτι εν ισαακ κληθησεται σοι σπερμα
Hebrews 11:18 Of whom it was said, That in Isaac shall thy seed be called:
Hebrews 11:19 λογισαμενος οτι και εκ νεκρων εγειρειν δυνατος ο θεος οθεν αυτον και εν παραβολη εκομισατο
Hebrews 11:19 Accounting that God was able to raise him up, even from the dead; from whence also he received him in a figure.
Hebrews 11:20 πιστει περι μελλοντων ευλογησεν ισαακ τον ιακωβ και τον ησαυ
Hebrews 11:20 By faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau concerning things to come.
Hebrews 11:21 πιστει ιακωβ αποθνησκων εκαστον των υιων ιωσηφ ευλογησεν και προσεκυνησεν επι το ακρον της ραβδου αυτου
Hebrews 11:21 By faith Jacob, when he was a dying, blessed both the sons of Joseph; and worshipped, leaning upon the top of his staff.
Hebrews 11:22 πιστει ιωσηφ τελευτων περι της εξοδου των υιων ισραηλ εμνημονευσεν και περι των οστεων αυτου ενετειλατο
Hebrews 11:22 By faith Joseph, when he died, made mention of the departing of the children of Israel; and gave commandment concerning his bones.
Hebrews 11:23 πιστει μωσης γεννηθεις εκρυβη τριμηνον υπο των πατερων αυτου διοτι ειδον αστειον το παιδιον και ουκ εφοβηθησαν το διαταγμα του βασιλεως
Hebrews 11:23 By faith Moses, when he was born, was hid three months of his parents, because they saw he was a proper child; and they were not afraid of the king's commandment.
Hebrews 11:24 πιστει μωσης μεγας γενομενος ηρνησατο λεγεσθαι υιος θυγατρος φαραω
Hebrews 11:24 By faith Moses, when he was come to years, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter;
Hebrews 11:25 μαλλον ελομενος συγκακουχεισθαι τω λαω του θεου η προσκαιρον εχειν αμαρτιας απολαυσιν
Hebrews 11:25 Choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God, than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season;
Hebrews 11:26 μειζονα πλουτον ηγησαμενος των εν αιγυπτω θησαυρων τον ονειδισμον του χριστου απεβλεπεν γαρ εις την μισθαποδοσιαν
Hebrews 11:26 Esteeming the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures in Egypt: for he had respect unto the recompence of the reward.
Hebrews 11:27 πιστει κατελιπεν αιγυπτον μη φοβηθεις τον θυμον του βασιλεως τον γαρ αορατον ως ορων εκαρτερησεν
Hebrews 11:27 By faith he forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king: for he endured, as seeing him who is invisible.
Hebrews 11:28 πιστει πεποιηκεν το πασχα και την προσχυσιν του αιματος ινα μη ο ολοθρευων τα πρωτοτοκα θιγη αυτων
Hebrews 11:28 Through faith he kept the passover, and the sprinkling of blood, lest he that destroyed the firstborn should touch them.
Hebrews 11:29 πιστει διεβησαν την ερυθραν θαλασσαν ως δια ξηρας ης πειραν λαβοντες οι αιγυπτιοι κατεποθησαν
Hebrews 11:29 By faith they passed through the Red sea as by dry land: which the Egyptians assaying to do were drowned.
Hebrews 11:30 πιστει τα τειχη ιεριχω επεσεν κυκλωθεντα επι επτα ημερας
Hebrews 11:30 By faith the walls of Jericho fell down, after they were compassed about seven days.
Hebrews 11:31 πιστει ρααβ η πορνη ου συναπωλετο τοις απειθησασιν δεξαμενη τους κατασκοπους μετ ειρηνης
Hebrews 11:31 By faith the harlot Rahab perished not with them that believed not, when she had received the spies with peace.
Hebrews 11:32 και τι ετι λεγω επιλειψει γαρ με διηγουμενον ο χρονος περι γεδεων βαρακ τε και σαμψων και ιεφθαε δαβιδ τε και σαμουηλ και των προφητων
Hebrews 11:32 And what shall I more say? for the time would fail me to tell of Gedeon, and of Barak, and of Samson, and of Jephthae; of David also, and Samuel, and of the prophets:
Hebrews 11:33 οι δια πιστεως κατηγωνισαντο βασιλειας ειργασαντο δικαιοσυνην επετυχον επαγγελιων εφραξαν στοματα λεοντων
Hebrews 11:33 Who through faith subdued kingdoms, wrought righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions.
Hebrews 11:34 εσβεσαν δυναμιν πυρος εφυγον στοματα μαχαιρας ενεδυναμωθησαν απο ασθενειας εγενηθησαν ισχυροι εν πολεμω παρεμβολας εκλιναν αλλοτριων
Hebrews 11:34 Quenched the violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, out of weakness were made strong, waxed valiant in fight, turned to flight the armies of the aliens.
Hebrews 11:35 ελαβον γυναικες εξ αναστασεως τους νεκρους αυτων αλλοι δε ετυμπανισθησαν ου προσδεξαμενοι την απολυτρωσιν ινα κρειττονος αναστασεως τυχωσιν
Hebrews 11:35 Women received their dead raised to life again: and others were tortured, not accepting deliverance; that they might obtain a better resurrection:
Hebrews 11:36 ετεροι δε εμπαιγμων και μαστιγων πειραν ελαβον ετι δε δεσμων και φυλακης
Hebrews 11:36 And others had trial of cruel mockings and scourgings, yea, moreover of bonds and imprisonment:
Hebrews 11:37 ελιθασθησαν επρισθησαν επειρασθησαν εν φονω μαχαιρας απεθανον περιηλθον εν μηλωταις εν αιγειοις δερμασιν υστερουμενοι θλιβομενοι κακουχουμενοι
Hebrews 11:37 They were stoned, they were sawn asunder, were tempted, were slain with the sword: they wandered about in sheepskins and goatskins; being destitute, afflicted, tormented;
Hebrews 11:38 ων ουκ ην αξιος ο κοσμος εν ερημιαις πλανωμενοι και ορεσιν και σπηλαιοις και ταις οπαις της γης
Hebrews 11:38 (Of whom the world was not worthy:) they wandered in deserts, and in mountains, and in dens and caves of the earth.
Hebrews 11:39 και ουτοι παντες μαρτυρηθεντες δια της πιστεως ουκ εκομισαντο την επαγγελιαν
Hebrews 11:39 And these all, having obtained a good report through faith, received not the promise:
Hebrews 11:40 του θεου περι ημων κρειττον τι προβλεψαμενου ινα μη χωρις ημων τελειωθωσιν
Hebrews 11:40 God having provided some better thing for us, that they without us should not be made perfect.
Hebrews 12:1 τοιγαρουν και ημεις τοσουτον εχοντες περικειμενον ημιν νεφος μαρτυρων ογκον αποθεμενοι παντα και την ευπεριστατον αμαρτιαν δι υπομονης τρεχωμεν τον προκειμενον ημιν αγωνα
Hebrews 12:1 Wherefore seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight, and the sin which doth so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us,
Hebrews 12:2 αφορωντες εις τον της πιστεως αρχηγον και τελειωτην ιησουν ος αντι της προκειμενης αυτω χαρας υπεμεινεν σταυρον αισχυνης καταφρονησας εν δεξια τε του θρονου του θεου εκαθισεν
Hebrews 12:2 Looking unto Jesus the author and finisher of our faith; who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God.
Hebrews 12:3 αναλογισασθε γαρ τον τοιαυτην υπομεμενηκοτα υπο των αμαρτωλων εις αυτον αντιλογιαν ινα μη καμητε ταις ψυχαις υμων εκλυομενοι
Hebrews 12:3 For consider him that endured such contradiction of sinners against himself, lest ye be wearied and faint in your minds.
Hebrews 12:4 ουπω μεχρις αιματος αντικατεστητε προς την αμαρτιαν ανταγωνιζομενοι
Hebrews 12:4 Ye have not yet resisted unto blood, striving against sin.
Hebrews 12:5 και εκλελησθε της παρακλησεως ητις υμιν ως υιοις διαλεγεται υιε μου μη ολιγωρει παιδειας κυριου μηδε εκλυου υπ αυτου ελεγχομενος
Hebrews 12:5 And ye have forgotten the exhortation which speaketh unto you as unto children, My son, despise not thou the chastening of the Lord, nor faint when thou art rebuked of him:
Hebrews 12:6 ον γαρ αγαπα κυριος παιδευει μαστιγοι δε παντα υιον ον παραδεχεται
Hebrews 12:6 For whom the Lord loveth he chasteneth, and scourgeth every son whom he receiveth.
Hebrews 12:7 ει παιδειαν υπομενετε ως υιοις υμιν προσφερεται ο θεος τις γαρ εστιν υιος ον ου παιδευει πατηρ
Hebrews 12:7 If ye endure chastening, God dealeth with you as with sons; for what son is he whom the father chasteneth not?
Hebrews 12:8 ει δε χωρις εστε παιδειας ης μετοχοι γεγονασιν παντες αρα νοθοι εστε και ουχ υιοι
Hebrews 12:8 But if ye be without chastisement, whereof all are partakers, then are ye bastards, and not sons.
Hebrews 12:9 ειτα τους μεν της σαρκος ημων πατερας ειχομεν παιδευτας και ενετρεπομεθα ου πολλω μαλλον υποταγησομεθα τω πατρι των πνευματων και ζησομεν
Hebrews 12:9 Furthermore we have had fathers of our flesh which corrected us, and we gave them reverence: shall we not much rather be in subjection unto the Father of spirits, and live?
Hebrews 12:10 οι μεν γαρ προς ολιγας ημερας κατα το δοκουν αυτοις επαιδευον ο δε επι το συμφερον εις το μεταλαβειν της αγιοτητος αυτου
Hebrews 12:10 For they verily for a few days chastened us after their own pleasure; but he for our profit, that we might be partakers of his holiness.
Hebrews 12:11 πασα δε παιδεια προς μεν το παρον ου δοκει χαρας ειναι αλλα λυπης υστερον δε καρπον ειρηνικον τοις δι αυτης γεγυμνασμενοις αποδιδωσιν δικαιοσυνης
Hebrews 12:11 Now no chastening for the present seemeth to be joyous, but grievous: nevertheless afterward it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of righteousness unto them which are exercised thereby.
Hebrews 12:12 διο τας παρειμενας χειρας και τα παραλελυμενα γονατα ανορθωσατε
Hebrews 12:12 Wherefore lift up the hands which hang down, and the feeble knees;
Hebrews 12:13 και τροχιας ορθας ποιησατε τοις ποσιν υμων ινα μη το χωλον εκτραπη ιαθη δε μαλλον
Hebrews 12:13 And make straight paths for your feet, lest that which is lame be turned out of the way; but let it rather be healed.
Hebrews 12:14 ειρηνην διωκετε μετα παντων και τον αγιασμον ου χωρις ουδεις οψεται τον κυριον
Hebrews 12:14 Follow peace with all men, and holiness, without which no man shall see the Lord:
Hebrews 12:15 επισκοπουντες μη τις υστερων απο της χαριτος του θεου μη τις ριζα πικριας ανω φυουσα ενοχλη και δια ταυτης μιανθωσιν πολλοι
Hebrews 12:15 Looking diligently lest any man fail of the grace of God; lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble you, and thereby many be defiled;
Hebrews 12:16 μη τις πορνος η βεβηλος ως ησαυ ος αντι βρωσεως μιας απεδοτο τα πρωτοτοκια αυτου
Hebrews 12:16 Lest there be any fornicator, or profane person, as Esau, who for one morsel of meat sold his birthright.
Hebrews 12:17 ιστε γαρ οτι και μετεπειτα θελων κληρονομησαι την ευλογιαν απεδοκιμασθη μετανοιας γαρ τοπον ουχ ευρεν καιπερ μετα δακρυων εκζητησας αυτην
Hebrews 12:17 For ye know how that afterward, when he would have inherited the blessing, he was rejected: for he found no place of repentance, though he sought it carefully with tears.
Hebrews 12:18 ου γαρ προσεληλυθατε ψηλαφωμενω ορει και κεκαυμενω πυρι και γνοφω και σκοτω και θυελλη
Hebrews 12:18 For ye are not come unto the mount that might be touched, and that burned with fire, nor unto blackness, and darkness, and tempest,
Hebrews 12:19 και σαλπιγγος ηχω και φωνη ρηματων ης οι ακουσαντες παρητησαντο μη προστεθηναι αυτοις λογον
Hebrews 12:19 And the sound of a trumpet, and the voice of words; which voice they that heard intreated that the word should not be spoken to them any more:
Hebrews 12:20 ουκ εφερον γαρ το διαστελλομενον καν θηριον θιγη του ορους λιθοβοληθησεται η βολιδι κατατοξευθησεται
Hebrews 12:20 (For they could not endure that which was commanded, And if so much as a beast touch the mountain, it shall be stoned, or thrust through with a dart:
Hebrews 12:21 και ουτως φοβερον ην το φανταζομενον μωσης ειπεν εκφοβος ειμι και εντρομος
Hebrews 12:21 And so terrible was the sight, that Moses said, I exceedingly fear and quake:)
Hebrews 12:22 αλλα προσεληλυθατε σιων ορει και πολει θεου ζωντος ιερουσαλημ επουρανιω και μυριασιν αγγελων
Hebrews 12:22 But ye are come unto mount Sion, and unto the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to an innumerable company of angels,
Hebrews 12:23 πανηγυρει και εκκλησια πρωτοτοκων εν ουρανοις απογεγραμμενων και κριτη θεω παντων και πνευμασιν δικαιων τετελειωμενων
Hebrews 12:23 To the general assembly and church of the firstborn, which are written in heaven, and to God the Judge of all, and to the spirits of just men made perfect,
Hebrews 12:24 και διαθηκης νεας μεσιτη ιησου και αιματι ραντισμου κρειττονα λαλουντι παρα τον αβελ
Hebrews 12:24 And to Jesus the mediator of the new covenant, and to the blood of sprinkling, that speaketh better things that that of Abel.
Hebrews 12:25 βλεπετε μη παραιτησησθε τον λαλουντα ει γαρ εκεινοι ουκ εφυγον τον επι της γης παραιτησαμενοι χρηματιζοντα πολλω μαλλον ημεις οι τον απ ουρανων αποστρεφομενοι
Hebrews 12:25 See that ye refuse not him that speaketh. For if they escaped not who refused him that spake on earth, much more shall not we escape, if we turn away from him that speaketh from heaven:
Hebrews 12:26 ου η φωνη την γην εσαλευσεν τοτε νυν δε επηγγελται λεγων ετι απαξ εγω σειω ου μονον την γην αλλα και τον ουρανον
Hebrews 12:26 Whose voice then shook the earth: but now he hath promised, saying, Yet once more I shake not the earth only, but also heaven.
Hebrews 12:27 το δε ετι απαξ δηλοι των σαλευομενων την μεταθεσιν ως πεποιημενων ινα μεινη τα μη σαλευομενα
Hebrews 12:27 And this word, Yet once more, signifieth the removing of those things that are shaken, as of things that are made, that those things which cannot be shaken may remain.
Hebrews 12:28 διο βασιλειαν ασαλευτον παραλαμβανοντες εχωμεν χαριν δι ης λατρευωμεν ευαρεστως τω θεω μετα αιδους και ευλαβειας
Hebrews 12:28 Wherefore we receiving a kingdom which cannot be moved, let us have grace, whereby we may serve God acceptably with reverence and godly fear:
Hebrews 12:29 και γαρ ο θεος ημων πυρ καταναλισκον
Hebrews 12:29 For our God is a consuming fire.
Hebrews 13:1 η φιλαδελφια μενετω
Hebrews 13:1 Let brotherly love continue.
Hebrews 13:2 της φιλοξενιας μη επιλανθανεσθε δια ταυτης γαρ ελαθον τινες ξενισαντες αγγελους
Hebrews 13:2 Be not forgetful to entertain strangers: for thereby some have entertained angels unawares.
Hebrews 13:3 μιμνησκεσθε των δεσμιων ως συνδεδεμενοι των κακουχουμενων ως και αυτοι οντες εν σωματι
Hebrews 13:3 Remember them that are in bonds, as bound with them; and them which suffer adversity, as being yourselves also in the body.
Hebrews 13:4 τιμιος ο γαμος εν πασιν και η κοιτη αμιαντος πορνους δε και μοιχους κρινει ο θεος
Hebrews 13:4 Marriage is honourable in all, and the bed undefiled: but whoremongers and adulterers God will judge.
Hebrews 13:5 αφιλαργυρος ο τροπος αρκουμενοι τοις παρουσιν αυτος γαρ ειρηκεν ου μη σε ανω ουδ ου μη σε εγκαταλιπω
Hebrews 13:5 Let your conversation be without covetousness; and be content with such things as ye have: for he hath said, I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee.
Hebrews 13:6 ωστε θαρρουντας ημας λεγειν κυριος εμοι βοηθος και ου φοβηθησομαι τι ποιησει μοι ανθρωπος
Hebrews 13:6 So that we may boldly say, The Lord is my helper, and I will not fear what man shall do unto me.
Hebrews 13:7 μνημονευετε των ηγουμενων υμων οιτινες ελαλησαν υμιν τον λογον του θεου ων αναθεωρουντες την εκβασιν της αναστροφης μιμεισθε την πιστιν
Hebrews 13:7 Remember them which have the rule over you, who have spoken unto you the word of God: whose faith follow, considering the end of their conversation.
Hebrews 13:8 ιησους χριστος χθες και σημερον ο αυτος και εις τους αιωνας
Hebrews 13:8 Jesus Christ the same yesterday, and to day, and for ever.
Hebrews 13:9 διδαχαις ποικιλαις και ξεναις μη περιφερεσθε καλον γαρ χαριτι βεβαιουσθαι την καρδιαν ου βρωμασιν εν οις ουκ ωφεληθησαν οι περιπατησαντες
Hebrews 13:9 Be not carried about with divers and strange doctrines. For it is a good thing that the heart be established with grace; not with meats, which have not profited them that have been occupied therein.
Hebrews 13:10 εχομεν θυσιαστηριον εξ ου φαγειν ουκ εχουσιν εξουσιαν οι τη σκηνη λατρευοντες
Hebrews 13:10 We have an altar, whereof they have no right to eat which serve the tabernacle.
Hebrews 13:11 ων γαρ εισφερεται ζωων το αιμα περι αμαρτιας εις τα αγια δια του αρχιερεως τουτων τα σωματα κατακαιεται εξω της παρεμβολης
Hebrews 13:11 For the bodies of those beasts, whose blood is brought into the sanctuary by the high priest for sin, are burned without the camp.
Hebrews 13:12 διο και ιησους ινα αγιαση δια του ιδιου αιματος τον λαον εξω της πυλης επαθεν
Hebrews 13:12 Wherefore Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people with his own blood, suffered without the gate.
Hebrews 13:13 τοινυν εξερχωμεθα προς αυτον εξω της παρεμβολης τον ονειδισμον αυτου φεροντες
Hebrews 13:13 Let us go forth therefore unto him without the camp, bearing his reproach.
Hebrews 13:14 ου γαρ εχομεν ωδε μενουσαν πολιν αλλα την μελλουσαν επιζητουμεν
Hebrews 13:14 For here have we no continuing city, but we seek one to come.
Hebrews 13:15 δι αυτου ουν αναφερωμεν θυσιαν αινεσεως διαπαντος τω θεω τουτεστιν καρπον χειλεων ομολογουντων τω ονοματι αυτου
Hebrews 13:15 By him therefore let us offer the sacrifice of praise to God continually, that is, the fruit of our lips giving thanks to his name.
Hebrews 13:16 της δε ευποιιας και κοινωνιας μη επιλανθανεσθε τοιαυταις γαρ θυσιαις ευαρεστειται ο θεος
Hebrews 13:16 But to do good and to communicate forget not: for with such sacrifices God is well pleased.
Hebrews 13:17 πειθεσθε τοις ηγουμενοις υμων και υπεικετε αυτοι γαρ αγρυπνουσιν υπερ των ψυχων υμων ως λογον αποδωσοντες ινα μετα χαρας τουτο ποιωσιν και μη στεναζοντες αλυσιτελες γαρ υμιν τουτο
Hebrews 13:17 Obey them that have the rule over you, and submit yourselves: for they watch for your souls, as they that must give account, that they may do it with joy, and not with grief: for that is unprofitable for you.
Hebrews 13:18 προσευχεσθε περι ημων πεποιθαμεν γαρ οτι καλην συνειδησιν εχομεν εν πασιν καλως θελοντες αναστρεφεσθαι
Hebrews 13:18 Pray for us: for we trust we have a good conscience, in all things willing to live honestly.
Hebrews 13:19 περισσοτερως δε παρακαλω τουτο ποιησαι ινα ταχιον αποκατασταθω υμιν
Hebrews 13:19 But I beseech you the rather to do this, that I may be restored to you the sooner.
Hebrews 13:20 ο δε θεος της ειρηνης ο αναγαγων εκ νεκρων τον ποιμενα των προβατων τον μεγαν εν αιματι διαθηκης αιωνιου τον κυριον ημων ιησουν
Hebrews 13:20 Now the God of peace, that brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus, that great shepherd of the sheep, through the blood of the everlasting covenant,
Hebrews 13:21 καταρτισαι υμας εν παντι εργω αγαθω εις το ποιησαι το θελημα αυτου ποιων εν υμιν το ευαρεστον ενωπιον αυτου δια ιησου χριστου ω η δοξα εις τους αιωνας των αιωνων αμην
Hebrews 13:21 Make you perfect in every good work to do his will, working in you that which is wellpleasing in his sight, through Jesus Christ; to whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen.
Hebrews 13:22 παρακαλω δε υμας αδελφοι ανεχεσθε του λογου της παρακλησεως και γαρ δια βραχεων επεστειλα υμιν
Hebrews 13:22 And I beseech you, brethren, suffer the word of exhortation: for I have written a letter unto you in few words.
Hebrews 13:23 γινωσκετε τον αδελφον τιμοθεον απολελυμενον μεθ ου εαν ταχιον ερχηται οψομαι υμας
Hebrews 13:23 Know ye that our brother Timothy is set at liberty; with whom, if he come shortly, I will see you.
Hebrews 13:24 ασπασασθε παντας τους ηγουμενους υμων και παντας τους αγιους ασπαζονται υμας οι απο της ιταλιας
Hebrews 13:24 Salute all them that have the rule over you, and all the saints. They of Italy salute you.
Hebrews 13:25 η χαρις μετα παντων υμων αμην [προς εβραιους εγραφη απο της ιταλιας δια τιμοθεου]
Hebrews 13:25 Grace be with you all. Amen.
James 1:1 ιακωβος θεου και κυριου ιησου χριστου δουλος ταις δωδεκα φυλαις ταις εν τη διασπορα χαιρειν
James 1:1 James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad, greeting.
James 1:2 πασαν χαραν ηγησασθε αδελφοι μου οταν πειρασμοις περιπεσητε ποικιλοις
James 1:2 My brethren, count it all joy when ye fall into divers temptations;
James 1:3 γινωσκοντες οτι το δοκιμιον υμων της πιστεως κατεργαζεται υπομονην
James 1:3 Knowing this, that the trying of your faith worketh patience.
James 1:4 η δε υπομονη εργον τελειον εχετω ινα ητε τελειοι και ολοκληροι εν μηδενι λειπομενοι
James 1:4 But let patience have her perfect work, that ye may be perfect and entire, wanting nothing.
James 1:5 ει δε τις υμων λειπεται σοφιας αιτειτω παρα του διδοντος θεου πασιν απλως και μη ονειδιζοντος και δοθησεται αυτω
James 1:5 If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him.
James 1:6 αιτειτω δε εν πιστει μηδεν διακρινομενος ο γαρ διακρινομενος εοικεν κλυδωνι θαλασσης ανεμιζομενω και ριπιζομενω
James 1:6 But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. For he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea driven with the wind and tossed.
James 1:7 μη γαρ οιεσθω ο ανθρωπος εκεινος οτι ληψεται τι παρα του κυριου
James 1:7 For let not that man think that he shall receive any thing of the Lord.
James 1:8 ανηρ διψυχος ακαταστατος εν πασαις ταις οδοις αυτου
James 1:8 A double minded man is unstable in all his ways.
James 1:9 καυχασθω δε ο αδελφος ο ταπεινος εν τω υψει αυτου
James 1:9 Let the brother of low degree rejoice in that he is exalted:
James 1:10 ο δε πλουσιος εν τη ταπεινωσει αυτου οτι ως ανθος χορτου παρελευσεται
James 1:10 But the rich, in that he is made low: because as the flower of the grass he shall pass away.
James 1:11 ανετειλεν γαρ ο ηλιος συν τω καυσωνι και εξηρανεν τον χορτον και το ανθος αυτου εξεπεσεν και η ευπρεπεια του προσωπου αυτου απωλετο ουτως και ο πλουσιος εν ταις πορειαις αυτου μαρανθησεται
James 1:11 For the sun is no sooner risen with a burning heat, but it withereth the grass, and the flower thereof falleth, and the grace of the fashion of it perisheth: so also shall the rich man fade away in his ways.
James 1:12 μακαριος ανηρ ος υπομενει πειρασμον οτι δοκιμος γενομενος ληψεται τον στεφανον της ζωης ον επηγγειλατο ο κυριος τοις αγαπωσιν αυτον
James 1:12 Blessed is the man that endureth temptation: for when he is tried, he shall receive the crown of life, which the Lord hath promised to them that love him.
James 1:13 μηδεις πειραζομενος λεγετω οτι απο του θεου πειραζομαι ο γαρ θεος απειραστος εστιν κακων πειραζει δε αυτος ουδενα
James 1:13 Let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God: for God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man:
James 1:14 εκαστος δε πειραζεται υπο της ιδιας επιθυμιας εξελκομενος και δελεαζομενος
James 1:14 But every man is tempted, when he is drawn away of his own lust, and enticed.
James 1:15 ειτα η επιθυμια συλλαβουσα τικτει αμαρτιαν η δε αμαρτια αποτελεσθεισα αποκυει θανατον
James 1:15 Then when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin: and sin, when it is finished, bringeth forth death.
James 1:16 μη πλανασθε αδελφοι μου αγαπητοι
James 1:16 Do not err, my beloved brethren.
James 1:17 πασα δοσις αγαθη και παν δωρημα τελειον ανωθεν εστιν καταβαινον απο του πατρος των φωτων παρ ω ουκ ενι παραλλαγη η τροπης αποσκιασμα
James 1:17 Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, and cometh down from the Father of lights, with whom is no variableness, neither shadow of turning.
James 1:18 βουληθεις απεκυησεν ημας λογω αληθειας εις το ειναι ημας απαρχην τινα των αυτου κτισματων
James 1:18 Of his own will begat he us with the word of truth, that we should be a kind of firstfruits of his creatures.
James 1:19 ωστε αδελφοι μου αγαπητοι εστω πας ανθρωπος ταχυς εις το ακουσαι βραδυς εις το λαλησαι βραδυς εις οργην
James 1:19 Wherefore, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath:
James 1:20 οργη γαρ ανδρος δικαιοσυνην θεου ου κατεργαζεται
James 1:20 For the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God.
James 1:21 διο αποθεμενοι πασαν ρυπαριαν και περισσειαν κακιας εν πραυτητι δεξασθε τον εμφυτον λογον τον δυναμενον σωσαι τας ψυχας υμων
James 1:21 Wherefore lay apart all filthiness and superfluity of naughtiness, and receive with meekness the engrafted word, which is able to save your souls.
James 1:22 γινεσθε δε ποιηται λογου και μη μονον ακροαται παραλογιζομενοι εαυτους
James 1:22 But be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves.
James 1:23 οτι ει τις ακροατης λογου εστιν και ου ποιητης ουτος εοικεν ανδρι κατανοουντι το προσωπον της γενεσεως αυτου εν εσοπτρω
James 1:23 For if any be a hearer of the word, and not a doer, he is like unto a man beholding his natural face in a glass:
James 1:24 κατενοησεν γαρ εαυτον και απεληλυθεν και ευθεως επελαθετο οποιος ην
James 1:24 For he beholdeth himself, and goeth his way, and straightway forgetteth what manner of man he was.
James 1:25 ο δε παρακυψας εις νομον τελειον τον της ελευθεριας και παραμεινας ουτος ουκ ακροατης επιλησμονης γενομενος αλλα ποιητης εργου ουτος μακαριος εν τη ποιησει αυτου εσται
James 1:25 But whoso looketh into the perfect law of liberty, and continueth therein, he being not a forgetful hearer, but a doer of the work, this man shall be blessed in his deed.
James 1:26 ει τις δοκει θρησκος ειναι εν υμιν μη χαλιναγωγων γλωσσαν αυτου αλλ απατων καρδιαν αυτου τουτου ματαιος η θρησκεια
James 1:26 If any man among you seem to be religious, and bridleth not his tongue, but deceiveth his own heart, this man's religion is vain.
James 1:27 θρησκεια καθαρα και αμιαντος παρα τω θεω και πατρι αυτη εστιν επισκεπτεσθαι ορφανους και χηρας εν τη θλιψει αυτων ασπιλον εαυτον τηρειν απο του κοσμου
James 1:27 Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, To visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world.
James 2:1 αδελφοι μου μη εν προσωποληψιαις εχετε την πιστιν του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου της δοξης
James 2:1 My brethren, have not the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory, with respect of persons.
James 2:2 εαν γαρ εισελθη εις την συναγωγην υμων ανηρ χρυσοδακτυλιος εν εσθητι λαμπρα εισελθη δε και πτωχος εν ρυπαρα εσθητι
James 2:2 For if there come unto your assembly a man with a gold ring, in goodly apparel, and there come in also a poor man in vile raiment;
James 2:3 και επιβλεψητε επι τον φορουντα την εσθητα την λαμπραν και ειπητε αυτω συ καθου ωδε καλως και τω πτωχω ειπητε συ στηθι εκει η καθου ωδε υπο το υποποδιον μου
James 2:3 And ye have respect to him that weareth the gay clothing, and say unto him, Sit thou here in a good place; and say to the poor, Stand thou there, or sit here under my footstool:
James 2:4 και ου διεκριθητε εν εαυτοις και εγενεσθε κριται διαλογισμων πονηρων
James 2:4 Are ye not then partial in yourselves, and are become judges of evil thoughts?
James 2:5 ακουσατε αδελφοι μου αγαπητοι ουχ ο θεος εξελεξατο τους πτωχους του κοσμου τουτου πλουσιους εν πιστει και κληρονομους της βασιλειας ης επηγγειλατο τοις αγαπωσιν αυτον
James 2:5 Hearken, my beloved brethren, Hath not God chosen the poor of this world rich in faith, and heirs of the kingdom which he hath promised to them that love him?
James 2:6 υμεις δε ητιμασατε τον πτωχον ουχ οι πλουσιοι καταδυναστευουσιν υμων και αυτοι ελκουσιν υμας εις κριτηρια
James 2:6 But ye have despised the poor. Do not rich men oppress you, and draw you before the judgment seats?
James 2:7 ουκ αυτοι βλασφημουσιν το καλον ονομα το επικληθεν εφ υμας
James 2:7 Do not they blaspheme that worthy name by the which ye are called?
James 2:8 ει μεντοι νομον τελειτε βασιλικον κατα την γραφην αγαπησεις τον πλησιον σου ως σεαυτον καλως ποιειτε
James 2:8 If ye fulfil the royal law according to the scripture, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself, ye do well:
James 2:9 ει δε προσωποληπτειτε αμαρτιαν εργαζεσθε ελεγχομενοι υπο του νομου ως παραβαται
James 2:9 But if ye have respect to persons, ye commit sin, and are convinced of the law as transgressors.
James 2:10 οστις γαρ ολον τον νομον τηρησει πταισει δε εν ενι γεγονεν παντων ενοχος
James 2:10 For whosoever shall keep the whole law, and yet offend in one point, he is guilty of all.
James 2:11 ο γαρ ειπων μη μοιχευσης ειπεν και μη φονευσης ει δε ου μοιχευσεις φονευσεις δε γεγονας παραβατης νομου
James 2:11 For he that said, Do not commit adultery, said also, Do not kill. Now if thou commit no adultery, yet if thou kill, thou art become a transgressor of the law.
James 2:12 ουτως λαλειτε και ουτως ποιειτε ως δια νομου ελευθεριας μελλοντες κρινεσθαι
James 2:12 So speak ye, and so do, as they that shall be judged by the law of liberty.
James 2:13 η γαρ κρισις ανιλεως τω μη ποιησαντι ελεος και κατακαυχαται ελεος κρισεως
James 2:13 For he shall have judgment without mercy, that hath shewed no mercy; and mercy rejoiceth against judgment.
James 2:14 τι το οφελος αδελφοι μου εαν πιστιν λεγη τις εχειν εργα δε μη εχη μη δυναται η πιστις σωσαι αυτον
James 2:14 What doth it profit, my brethren, though a man say he hath faith, and have not works? can faith save him?
James 2:15 εαν δε αδελφος η αδελφη γυμνοι υπαρχωσιν και λειπομενοι ωσιν της εφημερου τροφης
James 2:15 If a brother or sister be naked, and destitute of daily food,
James 2:16 ειπη δε τις αυτοις εξ υμων υπαγετε εν ειρηνη θερμαινεσθε και χορταζεσθε μη δωτε δε αυτοις τα επιτηδεια του σωματος τι το οφελος
James 2:16 And one of you say unto them, Depart in peace, be ye warmed and filled; notwithstanding ye give them not those things which are needful to the body; what doth it profit?
James 2:17 ουτως και η πιστις εαν μη εργα εχη νεκρα εστιν καθ εαυτην
James 2:17 Even so faith, if it hath not works, is dead, being alone.
James 2:18 αλλ ερει τις συ πιστιν εχεις καγω εργα εχω δειξον μοι την πιστιν σου εκ των εργων σου καγω δειξω σοι εκ των εργων μου την πιστιν μου
James 2:18 Yea, a man may say, Thou hast faith, and I have works: shew me thy faith without thy works, and I will shew thee my faith by my works.
James 2:19 συ πιστευεις οτι ο θεος εις εστιν καλως ποιεις και τα δαιμονια πιστευουσιν και φρισσουσιν
James 2:19 Thou believest that there is one God; thou doest well: the devils also believe, and tremble.
James 2:20 θελεις δε γνωναι ω ανθρωπε κενε οτι η πιστις χωρις των εργων νεκρα εστιν
James 2:20 But wilt thou know, O vain man, that faith without works is dead?
James 2:21 αβρααμ ο πατηρ ημων ουκ εξ εργων εδικαιωθη ανενεγκας ισαακ τον υιον αυτου επι το θυσιαστηριον
James 2:21 Was not Abraham our father justified by works, when he had offered Isaac his son upon the altar?
James 2:22 βλεπεις οτι η πιστις συνηργει τοις εργοις αυτου και εκ των εργων η πιστις ετελειωθη
James 2:22 Seest thou how faith wrought with his works, and by works was faith made perfect?
James 2:23 και επληρωθη η γραφη η λεγουσα επιστευσεν δε αβρααμ τω θεω και ελογισθη αυτω εις δικαιοσυνην και φιλος θεου εκληθη
James 2:23 And the scripture was fulfilled which saith, Abraham believed God, and it was imputed unto him for righteousness: and he was called the Friend of God.
James 2:24 ορατε τοινυν οτι εξ εργων δικαιουται ανθρωπος και ουκ εκ πιστεως μονον
James 2:24 Ye see then how that by works a man is justified, and not by faith only.
James 2:25 ομοιως δε και ρααβ η πορνη ουκ εξ εργων εδικαιωθη υποδεξαμενη τους αγγελους και ετερα οδω εκβαλουσα
James 2:25 Likewise also was not Rahab the harlot justified by works, when she had received the messengers, and had sent them out another way?
James 2:26 ωσπερ γαρ το σωμα χωρις πνευματος νεκρον εστιν ουτως και η πιστις χωρις των εργων νεκρα εστιν
James 2:26 For as the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without works is dead also.
James 3:1 μη πολλοι διδασκαλοι γινεσθε αδελφοι μου ειδοτες οτι μειζον κριμα ληψομεθα
James 3:1 My brethren, be not many masters, knowing that we shall receive the greater condemnation.
James 3:2 πολλα γαρ πταιομεν απαντες ει τις εν λογω ου πταιει ουτος τελειος ανηρ δυνατος χαλιναγωγησαι και ολον το σωμα
James 3:2 For in many things we offend all. If any man offend not in word, the same is a perfect man, and able also to bridle the whole body.
James 3:3 ιδου των ιππων τους χαλινους εις τα στοματα βαλλομεν προς το πειθεσθαι αυτους ημιν και ολον το σωμα αυτων μεταγομεν
James 3:3 Behold, we put bits in the horses' mouths, that they may obey us; and we turn about their whole body.
James 3:4 ιδου και τα πλοια τηλικαυτα οντα και υπο σκληρων ανεμων ελαυνομενα μεταγεται υπο ελαχιστου πηδαλιου οπου αν η ορμη του ευθυνοντος βουληται
James 3:4 Behold also the ships, which though they be so great, and are driven of fierce winds, yet are they turned about with a very small helm, whithersoever the governor listeth.
James 3:5 ουτως και η γλωσσα μικρον μελος εστιν και μεγαλαυχει ιδου ολιγον πυρ ηλικην υλην αναπτει
James 3:5 Even so the tongue is a little member, and boasteth great things. Behold, how great a matter a little fire kindleth!
James 3:6 και η γλωσσα πυρ ο κοσμος της αδικιας ουτως η γλωσσα καθισταται εν τοις μελεσιν ημων η σπιλουσα ολον το σωμα και φλογιζουσα τον τροχον της γενεσεως και φλογιζομενη υπο της γεεννης
James 3:6 And the tongue is a fire, a world of iniquity: so is the tongue among our members, that it defileth the whole body, and setteth on fire the course of nature; and it is set on fire of hell.
James 3:7 πασα γαρ φυσις θηριων τε και πετεινων ερπετων τε και εναλιων δαμαζεται και δεδαμασται τη φυσει τη ανθρωπινη
James 3:7 For every kind of beasts, and of birds, and of serpents, and of things in the sea, is tamed, and hath been tamed of mankind:
James 3:8 την δε γλωσσαν ουδεις δυναται ανθρωπων δαμασαι ακατασχετον κακον μεστη ιου θανατηφορου
James 3:8 But the tongue can no man tame; it is an unruly evil, full of deadly poison.
James 3:9 εν αυτη ευλογουμεν τον θεον και πατερα και εν αυτη καταρωμεθα τους ανθρωπους τους καθ ομοιωσιν θεου γεγονοτας
James 3:9 Therewith bless we God, even the Father; and therewith curse we men, which are made after the similitude of God.
James 3:10 εκ του αυτου στοματος εξερχεται ευλογια και καταρα ου χρη αδελφοι μου ταυτα ουτως γινεσθαι
James 3:10 Out of the same mouth proceedeth blessing and cursing. My brethren, these things ought not so to be.
James 3:11 μητι η πηγη εκ της αυτης οπης βρυει το γλυκυ και το πικρον
James 3:11 Doth a fountain send forth at the same place sweet water and bitter?
James 3:12 μη δυναται αδελφοι μου συκη ελαιας ποιησαι η αμπελος συκα ουτως ουδεμια πηγη αλυκον και γλυκυ ποιησαι υδωρ
James 3:12 Can the fig tree, my brethren, bear olive berries? either a vine, figs? so can no fountain both yield salt water and fresh.
James 3:13 τις σοφος και επιστημων εν υμιν δειξατω εκ της καλης αναστροφης τα εργα αυτου εν πραυτητι σοφιας
James 3:13 Who is a wise man and endued with knowledge among you? let him shew out of a good conversation his works with meekness of wisdom.
James 3:14 ει δε ζηλον πικρον εχετε και εριθειαν εν τη καρδια υμων μη κατακαυχασθε και ψευδεσθε κατα της αληθειας
James 3:14 But if ye have bitter envying and strife in your hearts, glory not, and lie not against the truth.
James 3:15 ουκ εστιν αυτη η σοφια ανωθεν κατερχομενη αλλ επιγειος ψυχικη δαιμονιωδης
James 3:15 This wisdom descendeth not from above, but is earthly, sensual, devilish.
James 3:16 οπου γαρ ζηλος και εριθεια εκει ακαταστασια και παν φαυλον πραγμα
James 3:16 For where envying and strife is, there is confusion and every evil work.
James 3:17 η δε ανωθεν σοφια πρωτον μεν αγνη εστιν επειτα ειρηνικη επιεικης ευπειθης μεστη ελεους και καρπων αγαθων αδιακριτος και ανυποκριτος
James 3:17 But the wisdom that is from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, and easy to be intreated, full of mercy and good fruits, without partiality, and without hypocrisy.
James 3:18 καρπος δε της δικαιοσυνης εν ειρηνη σπειρεται τοις ποιουσιν ειρηνην
James 3:18 And the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace of them that make peace.
James 4:1 ποθεν πολεμοι και μαχαι εν υμιν ουκ εντευθεν εκ των ηδονων υμων των στρατευομενων εν τοις μελεσιν υμων
James 4:1 From whence come wars and fightings among you? come they not hence, even of your lusts that war in your members?
James 4:2 επιθυμειτε και ουκ εχετε φονευετε και ζηλουτε και ου δυνασθε επιτυχειν μαχεσθε και πολεμειτε ουκ εχετε δε δια το μη αιτεισθαι υμας
James 4:2 Ye lust, and have not: ye kill, and desire to have, and cannot obtain: ye fight and war, yet ye have not, because ye ask not.
James 4:3 αιτειτε και ου λαμβανετε διοτι κακως αιτεισθε ινα εν ταις ηδοναις υμων δαπανησητε
James 4:3 Ye ask, and receive not, because ye ask amiss, that ye may consume it upon your lusts.
James 4:4 μοιχοι και μοιχαλιδες ουκ οιδατε οτι η φιλια του κοσμου εχθρα του θεου εστιν ος αν ουν βουληθη φιλος ειναι του κοσμου εχθρος του θεου καθισταται
James 4:4 Ye adulterers and adulteresses, know ye not that the friendship of the world is enmity with God? whosoever therefore will be a friend of the world is the enemy of God.
James 4:5 η δοκειτε οτι κενως η γραφη λεγει προς φθονον επιποθει το πνευμα ο κατωκησεν εν ημιν
James 4:5 Do ye think that the scripture saith in vain, The spirit that dwelleth in us lusteth to envy?
James 4:6 μειζονα δε διδωσιν χαριν διο λεγει ο θεος υπερηφανοις αντιτασσεται ταπεινοις δε διδωσιν χαριν
James 4:6 But he giveth more grace. Wherefore he saith, God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace unto the humble.
James 4:7 υποταγητε ουν τω θεω αντιστητε τω διαβολω και φευξεται αφ υμων
James 4:7 Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you.
James 4:8 εγγισατε τω θεω και εγγιει υμιν καθαρισατε χειρας αμαρτωλοι και αγνισατε καρδιας διψυχοι
James 4:8 Draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners; and purify your hearts, ye double minded.
James 4:9 ταλαιπωρησατε και πενθησατε και κλαυσατε ο γελως υμων εις πενθος μεταστραφητω και η χαρα εις κατηφειαν
James 4:9 Be afflicted, and mourn, and weep: let your laughter be turned to mourning, and your joy to heaviness.
James 4:10 ταπεινωθητε ενωπιον του κυριου και υψωσει υμας
James 4:10 Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he shall lift you up.
James 4:11 μη καταλαλειτε αλληλων αδελφοι ο καταλαλων αδελφου και κρινων τον αδελφον αυτου καταλαλει νομου και κρινει νομον ει δε νομον κρινεις ουκ ει ποιητης νομου αλλα κριτης
James 4:11 Speak not evil one of another, brethren. He that speaketh evil of his brother, and judgeth his brother, speaketh evil of the law, and judgeth the law: but if thou judge the law, thou art not a doer of the law, but a judge.
James 4:12 εις εστιν ο νομοθετης ο δυναμενος σωσαι και απολεσαι συ τις ει ος κρινεις τον ετερον
James 4:12 There is one lawgiver, who is able to save and to destroy: who art thou that judgest another?
James 4:13 αγε νυν οι λεγοντες σημερον και αυριον πορευσωμεθα εις τηνδε την πολιν και ποιησωμεν εκει ενιαυτον ενα και εμπορευσωμεθα και κερδησωμεν
James 4:13 Go to now, ye that say, To day or to morrow we will go into such a city, and continue there a year, and buy and sell, and get gain:
James 4:14 οιτινες ουκ επιστασθε το της αυριον ποια γαρ η ζωη υμων ατμις γαρ εστιν η προς ολιγον φαινομενη επειτα δε αφανιζομενη
James 4:14 Whereas ye know not what shall be on the morrow. For what is your life? It is even a vapour, that appeareth for a little time, and then vanisheth away.
James 4:15 αντι του λεγειν υμας εαν ο κυριος θεληση και ζησωμεν και ποιησωμεν τουτο η εκεινο
James 4:15 For that ye ought to say, If the Lord will, we shall live, and do this, or that.
James 4:16 νυν δε καυχασθε εν ταις αλαζονειαις υμων πασα καυχησις τοιαυτη πονηρα εστιν
James 4:16 But now ye rejoice in your boastings: all such rejoicing is evil.
James 4:17 ειδοτι ουν καλον ποιειν και μη ποιουντι αμαρτια αυτω εστιν
James 4:17 Therefore to him that knoweth to do good, and doeth it not, to him it is sin.
James 5:1 αγε νυν οι πλουσιοι κλαυσατε ολολυζοντες επι ταις ταλαιπωριαις υμων ταις επερχομεναις
James 5:1 Go to now, ye rich men, weep and howl for your miseries that shall come upon you.
James 5:2 ο πλουτος υμων σεσηπεν και τα ιματια υμων σητοβρωτα γεγονεν
James 5:2 Your riches are corrupted, and your garments are motheaten.
James 5:3 ο χρυσος υμων και ο αργυρος κατιωται και ο ιος αυτων εις μαρτυριον υμιν εσται και φαγεται τας σαρκας υμων ως πυρ εθησαυρισατε εν εσχαταις ημεραις
James 5:3 Your gold and silver is cankered; and the rust of them shall be a witness against you, and shall eat your flesh as it were fire. Ye have heaped treasure together for the last days.
James 5:4 ιδου ο μισθος των εργατων των αμησαντων τας χωρας υμων ο απεστερημενος αφ υμων κραζει και αι βοαι των θερισαντων εις τα ωτα κυριου σαβαωθ εισεληλυθασιν
James 5:4 Behold, the hire of the labourers who have reaped down your fields, which is of you kept back by fraud, crieth: and the cries of them which have reaped are entered into the ears of the Lord of sabaoth.
James 5:5 ετρυφησατε επι της γης και εσπαταλησατε εθρεψατε τας καρδιας υμων ως εν ημερα σφαγης
James 5:5 Ye have lived in pleasure on the earth, and been wanton; ye have nourished your hearts, as in a day of slaughter.
James 5:6 κατεδικασατε εφονευσατε τον δικαιον ουκ αντιτασσεται υμιν
James 5:6 Ye have condemned and killed the just; and he doth not resist you.
James 5:7 μακροθυμησατε ουν αδελφοι εως της παρουσιας του κυριου ιδου ο γεωργος εκδεχεται τον τιμιον καρπον της γης μακροθυμων επ αυτω εως αν λαβη υετον πρωιμον και οψιμον
James 5:7 Be patient therefore, brethren, unto the coming of the Lord.  Behold, the husbandman waiteth for the precious fruit of the earth, and hath long patience for it, until he receive the early and latter rain.
James 5:8 μακροθυμησατε και υμεις στηριξατε τας καρδιας υμων οτι η παρουσια του κυριου ηγγικεν
James 5:8 Be ye also patient; stablish your hearts: for the coming of the Lord draweth nigh.
James 5:9 μη στεναζετε κατ αλληλων αδελφοι ινα μη κατακριθητε ιδου κριτης προ των θυρων εστηκεν
James 5:9 Grudge not one against another, brethren, lest ye be condemned: behold, the judge standeth before the door.
James 5:10 υποδειγμα λαβετε της κακοπαθειας αδελφοι μου και της μακροθυμιας τους προφητας οι ελαλησαν τω ονοματι κυριου
James 5:10 Take, my brethren, the prophets, who have spoken in the name of the Lord, for an example of suffering affliction, and of patience.
James 5:11 ιδου μακαριζομεν τους υπομενοντας την υπομονην ιωβ ηκουσατε και το τελος κυριου ειδετε οτι πολυσπλαγχνος εστιν ο κυριος και οικτιρμων
James 5:11 Behold, we count them happy which endure. Ye have heard of the patience of Job, and have seen the end of the Lord; that the Lord is very pitiful, and of tender mercy.
James 5:12 προ παντων δε αδελφοι μου μη ομνυετε μητε τον ουρανον μητε την γην μητε αλλον τινα ορκον ητω δε υμων το ναι ναι και το ου ου ινα μη εις υποκρισιν πεσητε
James 5:12 But above all things, my brethren, swear not, neither by heaven, neither by the earth, neither by any other oath: but let your yea be yea; and your nay, nay; lest ye fall into condemnation.
James 5:13 κακοπαθει τις εν υμιν προσευχεσθω ευθυμει τις ψαλλετω
James 5:13 Is any among you afflicted? let him pray. Is any merry? let him sing psalms.
James 5:14 ασθενει τις εν υμιν προσκαλεσασθω τους πρεσβυτερους της εκκλησιας και προσευξασθωσαν επ αυτον αλειψαντες αυτον ελαιω εν τω ονοματι του κυριου
James 5:14 Is any sick among you? let him call for the elders of the church; and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord:
James 5:15 και η ευχη της πιστεως σωσει τον καμνοντα και εγερει αυτον ο κυριος καν αμαρτιας η πεποιηκως αφεθησεται αυτω
James 5:15 And the prayer of faith shall save the sick, and the Lord shall raise him up; and if he have committed sins, they shall be forgiven him.
James 5:16 εξομολογεισθε αλληλοις τα παραπτωματα και ευχεσθε υπερ αλληλων οπως ιαθητε πολυ ισχυει δεησις δικαιου ενεργουμενη
James 5:16 Confess your faults one to another, and pray one for another, that ye may be healed. The effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much.
James 5:17 ηλιας ανθρωπος ην ομοιοπαθης ημιν και προσευχη προσηυξατο του μη βρεξαι και ουκ εβρεξεν επι της γης ενιαυτους τρεις και μηνας εξ
James 5:17 Elias was a man subject to like passions as we are, and he prayed earnestly that it might not rain: and it rained not on the earth by the space of three years and six months.
James 5:18 και παλιν προσηυξατο και ο ουρανος υετον εδωκεν και η γη εβλαστησεν τον καρπον αυτης
James 5:18 And he prayed again, and the heaven gave rain, and the earth brought forth her fruit.
James 5:19 αδελφοι εαν τις εν υμιν πλανηθη απο της αληθειας και επιστρεψη τις αυτον
James 5:19 Brethren, if any of you do err from the truth, and one convert him;
James 5:20 γινωσκετω οτι ο επιστρεψας αμαρτωλον εκ πλανης οδου αυτου σωσει ψυχην εκ θανατου και καλυψει πληθος αμαρτιων
James 5:20 Let him know, that he which converteth the sinner from the error of his way shall save a soul from death, and shall hide a multitude of sins.
1 Peter 1:1 πετρος αποστολος ιησου χριστου εκλεκτοις παρεπιδημοις διασπορας ποντου γαλατιας καππαδοκιας ασιας και βιθυνιας
1 Peter 1:1 Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to the strangers scattered throughout Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia,
1 Peter 1:2 κατα προγνωσιν θεου πατρος εν αγιασμω πνευματος εις υπακοην και ραντισμον αιματος ιησου χριστου χαρις υμιν και ειρηνη πληθυνθειη
1 Peter 1:2 Elect according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, through sanctification of the Spirit, unto obedience and sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ: Grace unto you, and peace, be multiplied.
1 Peter 1:3 ευλογητος ο θεος και πατηρ του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου ο κατα το πολυ αυτου ελεος αναγεννησας ημας εις ελπιδα ζωσαν δι αναστασεως ιησου χριστου εκ νεκρων
1 Peter 1:3 Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which according to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again unto a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead,
1 Peter 1:4 εις κληρονομιαν αφθαρτον και αμιαντον και αμαραντον τετηρημενην εν ουρανοις εις ημας
1 Peter 1:4 To an inheritance incorruptible, and undefiled, and that fadeth not away, reserved in heaven for you,
1 Peter 1:5 τους εν δυναμει θεου φρουρουμενους δια πιστεως εις σωτηριαν ετοιμην αποκαλυφθηναι εν καιρω εσχατω
1 Peter 1:5 Who are kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation ready to be revealed in the last time.
1 Peter 1:6 εν ω αγαλλιασθε ολιγον αρτι ει δεον εστιν λυπηθεντες εν ποικιλοις πειρασμοις
1 Peter 1:6 Wherein ye greatly rejoice, though now for a season, if need be, ye are in heaviness through manifold temptations:
1 Peter 1:7 ινα το δοκιμιον υμων της πιστεως πολυ τιμιωτερον χρυσιου του απολλυμενου δια πυρος δε δοκιμαζομενου ευρεθη εις επαινον και τιμην και δοξαν εν αποκαλυψει ιησου χριστου
1 Peter 1:7 That the trial of your faith, being much more precious than of gold that perisheth, though it be tried with fire, might be found unto praise and honour and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ:
1 Peter 1:8 ον ουκ ειδοτες αγαπατε εις ον αρτι μη ορωντες πιστευοντες δε αγαλλιασθε χαρα ανεκλαλητω και δεδοξασμενη
1 Peter 1:8 Whom having not seen, ye love; in whom, though now ye see him not, yet believing, ye rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory:
1 Peter 1:9 κομιζομενοι το τελος της πιστεως υμων σωτηριαν ψυχων
1 Peter 1:9 Receiving the end of your faith, even the salvation of your souls.
1 Peter 1:10 περι ης σωτηριας εξεζητησαν και εξηρευνησαν προφηται οι περι της εις υμας χαριτος προφητευσαντες
1 Peter 1:10 Of which salvation the prophets have enquired and searched diligently, who prophesied of the grace that should come unto you:
1 Peter 1:11 ερευνωντες εις τινα η ποιον καιρον εδηλου το εν αυτοις πνευμα χριστου προμαρτυρομενον τα εις χριστον παθηματα και τας μετα ταυτα δοξας
1 Peter 1:11 Searching what, or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ which was in them did signify, when it testified beforehand the sufferings of Christ, and the glory that should follow.
1 Peter 1:12 οις απεκαλυφθη οτι ουχ εαυτοις ημιν δε διηκονουν αυτα α νυν ανηγγελη υμιν δια των ευαγγελισαμενων υμας εν πνευματι αγιω αποσταλεντι απ ουρανου εις α επιθυμουσιν αγγελοι παρακυψαι
1 Peter 1:12 Unto whom it was revealed, that not unto themselves, but unto us they did minister the things, which are now reported unto you by them that have preached the gospel unto you with the Holy Ghost sent down from heaven; which things the angels desire to look into.
1 Peter 1:13 διο αναζωσαμενοι τας οσφυας της διανοιας υμων νηφοντες τελειως ελπισατε επι την φερομενην υμιν χαριν εν αποκαλυψει ιησου χριστου
1 Peter 1:13 Wherefore gird up the loins of your mind, be sober, and hope to the end for the grace that is to be brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ;
1 Peter 1:14 ως τεκνα υπακοης μη συσχηματιζομενοι ταις προτερον εν τη αγνοια υμων επιθυμιαις
1 Peter 1:14 As obedient children, not fashioning yourselves according to the former lusts in your ignorance:
1 Peter 1:15 αλλα κατα τον καλεσαντα υμας αγιον και αυτοι αγιοι εν παση αναστροφη γενηθητε
1 Peter 1:15 But as he which hath called you is holy, so be ye holy in all manner of conversation;
1 Peter 1:16 διοτι γεγραπται αγιοι γενεσθε οτι εγω αγιος ειμι
1 Peter 1:16 Because it is written, Be ye holy; for I am holy.
1 Peter 1:17 και ει πατερα επικαλεισθε τον απροσωποληπτως κρινοντα κατα το εκαστου εργον εν φοβω τον της παροικιας υμων χρονον αναστραφητε
1 Peter 1:17 And if ye call on the Father, who without respect of persons judgeth according to every man's work, pass the time of your sojourning here in fear:
1 Peter 1:18 ειδοτες οτι ου φθαρτοις αργυριω η χρυσιω ελυτρωθητε εκ της ματαιας υμων αναστροφης πατροπαραδοτου
1 Peter 1:18 Forasmuch as ye know that ye were not redeemed with corruptible things, as silver and gold, from your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers;
1 Peter 1:19 αλλα τιμιω αιματι ως αμνου αμωμου και ασπιλου χριστου
1 Peter 1:19 But with the precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot:
1 Peter 1:20 προεγνωσμενου μεν προ καταβολης κοσμου φανερωθεντος δε επ εσχατων των χρονων δι υμας
1 Peter 1:20 Who verily was foreordained before the foundation of the world, but was manifest in these last times for you,
1 Peter 1:21 τους δι αυτου πιστευοντας εις θεον τον εγειραντα αυτον εκ νεκρων και δοξαν αυτω δοντα ωστε την πιστιν υμων και ελπιδα ειναι εις θεον
1 Peter 1:21 Who by him do believe in God, that raised him up from the dead, and gave him glory; that your faith and hope might be in God.
1 Peter 1:22 τας ψυχας υμων ηγνικοτες εν τη υπακοη της αληθειας δια πνευματος εις φιλαδελφιαν ανυποκριτον εκ καθαρας καρδιας αλληλους αγαπησατε εκτενως
1 Peter 1:22 Seeing ye have purified your souls in obeying the truth through the Spirit unto unfeigned love of the brethren, see that ye love one another with a pure heart fervently:
1 Peter 1:23 αναγεγεννημενοι ουκ εκ σπορας φθαρτης αλλα αφθαρτου δια λογου ζωντος θεου και μενοντος εις τον αιωνα
1 Peter 1:23 Being born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible, by the word of God, which liveth and abideth for ever.
1 Peter 1:24 διοτι πασα σαρξ ως χορτος και πασα δοξα ανθρωπου ως ανθος χορτου εξηρανθη ο χορτος και το ανθος αυτου εξεπεσεν
1 Peter 1:24 For all flesh is as grass, and all the glory of man as the flower of grass. The grass withereth, and the flower thereof falleth away:
1 Peter 1:25 το δε ρημα κυριου μενει εις τον αιωνα τουτο δε εστιν το ρημα το ευαγγελισθεν εις υμας
1 Peter 1:25 But the word of the Lord endureth for ever. And this is the word which by the gospel is preached unto you.
1 Peter 2:1 αποθεμενοι ουν πασαν κακιαν και παντα δολον και υποκρισεις και φθονους και πασας καταλαλιας
1 Peter 2:1 Wherefore laying aside all malice, and all guile, and hypocrisies, and envies, all evil speakings,
1 Peter 2:2 ως αρτιγεννητα βρεφη το λογικον αδολον γαλα επιποθησατε ινα εν αυτω αυξηθητε
1 Peter 2:2 As newborn babes, desire the sincere milk of the word, that ye may grow thereby:
1 Peter 2:3 ειπερ εγευσασθε οτι χρηστος ο κυριος
1 Peter 2:3 If so be ye have tasted that the Lord is gracious.
1 Peter 2:4 προς ον προσερχομενοι λιθον ζωντα υπο ανθρωπων μεν αποδεδοκιμασμενον παρα δε θεω εκλεκτον εντιμον
1 Peter 2:4 To whom coming, as unto a living stone, disallowed indeed of men, but chosen of God, and precious,
1 Peter 2:5 και αυτοι ως λιθοι ζωντες οικοδομεισθε οικος πνευματικος ιερατευμα αγιον ανενεγκαι πνευματικας θυσιας ευπροσδεκτους τω θεω δια ιησου χριστου
1 Peter 2:5 Ye also, as lively stones, are built up a spiritual house, an holy priesthood, to offer up spiritual sacrifices, acceptable to God by Jesus Christ.
1 Peter 2:6 διο και περιεχει εν τη γραφη ιδου τιθημι εν σιων λιθον ακρογωνιαιον εκλεκτον εντιμον και ο πιστευων επ αυτω ου μη καταισχυνθη
1 Peter 2:6 Wherefore also it is contained in the scripture, Behold, I lay in Sion a chief corner stone, elect, precious: and he that believeth on him shall not be confounded.
1 Peter 2:7 υμιν ουν η τιμη τοις πιστευουσιν απειθουσιν δε λιθον ον απεδοκιμασαν οι οικοδομουντες ουτος εγενηθη εις κεφαλην γωνιας
1 Peter 2:7 Unto you therefore which believe he is precious: but unto them which be disobedient, the stone which the builders disallowed, the same is made the head of the corner,
1 Peter 2:8 και λιθος προσκομματος και πετρα σκανδαλου οι προσκοπτουσιν τω λογω απειθουντες εις ο και ετεθησαν
1 Peter 2:8 And a stone of stumbling, and a rock of offence, even to them which stumble at the word, being disobedient: whereunto also they were appointed.
1 Peter 2:9 υμεις δε γενος εκλεκτον βασιλειον ιερατευμα εθνος αγιον λαος εις περιποιησιν οπως τας αρετας εξαγγειλητε του εκ σκοτους υμας καλεσαντος εις το θαυμαστον αυτου φως
1 Peter 2:9 But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, an holy nation, a peculiar people; that ye should shew forth the praises of him who hath called you out of darkness into his marvellous light;
1 Peter 2:10 οι ποτε ου λαος νυν δε λαος θεου οι ουκ ηλεημενοι νυν δε ελεηθεντες
1 Peter 2:10 Which in time past were not a people, but are now the people of God: which had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy.
1 Peter 2:11 αγαπητοι παρακαλω ως παροικους και παρεπιδημους απεχεσθαι των σαρκικων επιθυμιων αιτινες στρατευονται κατα της ψυχης
1 Peter 2:11 Dearly beloved, I beseech you as strangers and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lusts, which war against the soul;
1 Peter 2:12 την αναστροφην υμων εν τοις εθνεσιν εχοντες καλην ινα εν ω καταλαλουσιν υμων ως κακοποιων εκ των καλων εργων εποπτευσαντες δοξασωσιν τον θεον εν ημερα επισκοπης
1 Peter 2:12 Having your conversation honest among the Gentiles: that, whereas they speak against you as evildoers, they may by your good works, which they shall behold, glorify God in the day of visitation.
1 Peter 2:13 υποταγητε ουν παση ανθρωπινη κτισει δια τον κυριον ειτε βασιλει ως υπερεχοντι
1 Peter 2:13 Submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake: whether it be to the king, as supreme;
1 Peter 2:14 ειτε ηγεμοσιν ως δι αυτου πεμπομενοις εις εκδικησιν μεν κακοποιων επαινον δε αγαθοποιων
1 Peter 2:14 Or unto governors, as unto them that are sent by him for the punishment of evildoers, and for the praise of them that do well.
1 Peter 2:15 οτι ουτως εστιν το θελημα του θεου αγαθοποιουντας φιμουν την των αφρονων ανθρωπων αγνωσιαν
1 Peter 2:15 For so is the will of God, that with well doing ye may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men:
1 Peter 2:16 ως ελευθεροι και μη ως επικαλυμμα εχοντες της κακιας την ελευθεριαν αλλ ως δουλοι θεου
1 Peter 2:16 As free, and not using your liberty for a cloke of maliciousness, but as the servants of God.
1 Peter 2:17 παντας τιμησατε την αδελφοτητα αγαπατε τον θεον φοβεισθε τον βασιλεα τιματε
1 Peter 2:17 Honour all men. Love the brotherhood. Fear God. Honour the king.
1 Peter 2:18 οι οικεται υποτασσομενοι εν παντι φοβω τοις δεσποταις ου μονον τοις αγαθοις και επιεικεσιν αλλα και τοις σκολιοις
1 Peter 2:18 Servants, be subject to your masters with all fear; not only to the good and gentle, but also to the froward.
1 Peter 2:19 τουτο γαρ χαρις ει δια συνειδησιν θεου υποφερει τις λυπας πασχων αδικως
1 Peter 2:19 For this is thankworthy, if a man for conscience toward God endure grief, suffering wrongfully.
1 Peter 2:20 ποιον γαρ κλεος ει αμαρτανοντες και κολαφιζομενοι υπομενειτε αλλ ει αγαθοποιουντες και πασχοντες υπομενειτε τουτο χαρις παρα θεω
1 Peter 2:20 For what glory is it, if, when ye be buffeted for your faults, ye shall take it patiently? but if, when ye do well, and suffer for it, ye take it patiently, this is acceptable with God.
1 Peter 2:21 εις τουτο γαρ εκληθητε οτι και χριστος επαθεν υπερ ημων ημιν υπολιμπανων υπογραμμον ινα επακολουθησητε τοις ιχνεσιν αυτου
1 Peter 2:21 For even hereunto were ye called: because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example, that ye should follow his steps:
1 Peter 2:22 ος αμαρτιαν ουκ εποιησεν ουδε ευρεθη δολος εν τω στοματι αυτου
1 Peter 2:22 Who did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth:
1 Peter 2:23 ος λοιδορουμενος ουκ αντελοιδορει πασχων ουκ ηπειλει παρεδιδου δε τω κρινοντι δικαιως
1 Peter 2:23 Who, when he was reviled, reviled not again; when he suffered, he threatened not; but committed himself to him that judgeth righteously:
1 Peter 2:24 ος τας αμαρτιας ημων αυτος ανηνεγκεν εν τω σωματι αυτου επι το ξυλον ινα ταις αμαρτιαις απογενομενοι τη δικαιοσυνη ζησωμεν ου τω μωλωπι αυτου ιαθητε
1 Peter 2:24 Who his own self bare our sins in his own body on the tree, that we, being dead to sins, should live unto righteousness: by whose stripes ye were healed.
1 Peter 2:25 ητε γαρ ως προβατα πλανωμενα αλλ επεστραφητε νυν επι τον ποιμενα και επισκοπον των ψυχων υμων
1 Peter 2:25 For ye were as sheep going astray; but are now returned unto the Shepherd and Bishop of your souls.
1 Peter 3:1 ομοιως αι γυναικες υποτασσομεναι τοις ιδιοις ανδρασιν ινα και ει τινες απειθουσιν τω λογω δια της των γυναικων αναστροφης ανευ λογου κερδηθησωνται
1 Peter 3:1 Likewise, ye wives, be in subjection to your own husbands; that, if any obey not the word, they also may without the word be won by the conversation of the wives;
1 Peter 3:2 εποπτευσαντες την εν φοβω αγνην αναστροφην υμων
1 Peter 3:2 While they behold your chaste conversation coupled with fear.
1 Peter 3:3 ων εστω ουχ ο εξωθεν εμπλοκης τριχων και περιθεσεως χρυσιων η ενδυσεως ιματιων κοσμος
1 Peter 3:3 Whose adorning let it not be that outward adorning of plaiting the hair, and of wearing of gold, or of putting on of apparel;
1 Peter 3:4 αλλ ο κρυπτος της καρδιας ανθρωπος εν τω αφθαρτω του πραεος και ησυχιου πνευματος ο εστιν ενωπιον του θεου πολυτελες
1 Peter 3:4 But let it be the hidden man of the heart, in that which is not corruptible, even the ornament of a meek and quiet spirit, which is in the sight of God of great price.
1 Peter 3:5 ουτως γαρ ποτε και αι αγιαι γυναικες αι ελπιζουσαι επι τον θεον εκοσμουν εαυτας υποτασσομεναι τοις ιδιοις ανδρασιν
1 Peter 3:5 For after this manner in the old time the holy women also, who trusted in God, adorned themselves, being in subjection unto their own husbands:
1 Peter 3:6 ως σαρρα υπηκουσεν τω αβρααμ κυριον αυτον καλουσα ης εγενηθητε τεκνα αγαθοποιουσαι και μη φοβουμεναι μηδεμιαν πτοησιν
1 Peter 3:6 Even as Sara obeyed Abraham, calling him lord: whose daughters ye are, as long as ye do well, and are not afraid with any amazement.
1 Peter 3:7 οι ανδρες ομοιως συνοικουντες κατα γνωσιν ως ασθενεστερω σκευει τω γυναικειω απονεμοντες τιμην ως και συγκληρονομοι χαριτος ζωης εις το μη εκκοπτεσθαι τας προσευχας υμων
1 Peter 3:7 Likewise, ye husbands, dwell with them according to knowledge, giving honour unto the wife, as unto the weaker vessel, and as being heirs together of the grace of life; that your prayers be not hindered.
1 Peter 3:8 το δε τελος παντες ομοφρονες συμπαθεις φιλαδελφοι ευσπλαγχνοι φιλοφρονες
1 Peter 3:8 Finally, be ye all of one mind, having compassion one of another, love as brethren, be pitiful, be courteous:
1 Peter 3:9 μη αποδιδοντες κακον αντι κακου η λοιδοριαν αντι λοιδοριας τουναντιον δε ευλογουντες ειδοτες οτι εις τουτο εκληθητε ινα ευλογιαν κληρονομησητε
1 Peter 3:9 Not rendering evil for evil, or railing for railing: but contrariwise blessing; knowing that ye are thereunto called, that ye should inherit a blessing.
1 Peter 3:10 ο γαρ θελων ζωην αγαπαν και ιδειν ημερας αγαθας παυσατω την γλωσσαν αυτου απο κακου και χειλη αυτου του μη λαλησαι δολον
1 Peter 3:10 For he that will love life, and see good days, let him refrain his tongue from evil, and his lips that they speak no guile:
1 Peter 3:11 εκκλινατω απο κακου και ποιησατω αγαθον ζητησατω ειρηνην και διωξατω αυτην
1 Peter 3:11 Let him eschew evil, and do good; let him seek peace, and ensue it.
1 Peter 3:12 οτι οι οφθαλμοι κυριου επι δικαιους και ωτα αυτου εις δεησιν αυτων προσωπον δε κυριου επι ποιουντας κακα
1 Peter 3:12 For the eyes of the Lord are over the righteous, and his ears are open unto their prayers: but the face of the Lord is against them that do evil.
1 Peter 3:13 και τις ο κακωσων υμας εαν του αγαθου μιμηται γενησθε
1 Peter 3:13 And who is he that will harm you, if ye be followers of that which is good?
1 Peter 3:14 αλλ ει και πασχοιτε δια δικαιοσυνην μακαριοι τον δε φοβον αυτων μη φοβηθητε μηδε ταραχθητε
1 Peter 3:14 But and if ye suffer for righteousness' sake, happy are ye: and be not afraid of their terror, neither be troubled;
1 Peter 3:15 κυριον δε τον θεον αγιασατε εν ταις καρδιαις υμων ετοιμοι δε αει προς απολογιαν παντι τω αιτουντι υμας λογον περι της εν υμιν ελπιδος μετα πραυτητος και φοβου
1 Peter 3:15 But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts: and be ready always to give an answer to every man that asketh you a reason of the hope that is in you with meekness and fear:
1 Peter 3:16 συνειδησιν εχοντες αγαθην ινα εν ω καταλαλωσιν υμων ως κακοποιων καταισχυνθωσιν οι επηρεαζοντες υμων την αγαθην εν χριστω αναστροφην
1 Peter 3:16 Having a good conscience; that, whereas they speak evil of you, as of evildoers, they may be ashamed that falsely accuse your good conversation in Christ.
1 Peter 3:17 κρειττον γαρ αγαθοποιουντας ει θελει το θελημα του θεου πασχειν η κακοποιουντας
1 Peter 3:17 For it is better, if the will of God be so, that ye suffer for well doing, than for evil doing.
1 Peter 3:18 οτι και χριστος απαξ περι αμαρτιων επαθεν δικαιος υπερ αδικων ινα ημας προσαγαγη τω θεω θανατωθεις μεν σαρκι ζωοποιηθεις δε τω πνευματι
1 Peter 3:18 For Christ also hath once suffered for sins, the just for the unjust, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but quickened by the Spirit:
1 Peter 3:19 εν ω και τοις εν φυλακη πνευμασιν πορευθεις εκηρυξεν
1 Peter 3:19 By which also he went and preached unto the spirits in prison;
1 Peter 3:20 απειθησασιν ποτε οτε απαξ εξεδεχετο η του θεου μακροθυμια εν ημεραις νωε κατασκευαζομενης κιβωτου εις ην ολιγαι τουτεστιν οκτω ψυχαι διεσωθησαν δι υδατος
1 Peter 3:20 Which sometime were disobedient, when once the longsuffering of God waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was a preparing, wherein few, that is, eight souls were saved by water.
1 Peter 3:21 ο και ημας αντιτυπον νυν σωζει βαπτισμα ου σαρκος αποθεσις ρυπου αλλα συνειδησεως αγαθης επερωτημα εις θεον δι αναστασεως ιησου χριστου
1 Peter 3:21 The like figure whereunto even baptism doth also now save us (not the putting away of the filth of the flesh, but the answer of a good conscience toward God,) by the resurrection of Jesus Christ:
1 Peter 3:22 ος εστιν εν δεξια του θεου πορευθεις εις ουρανον υποταγεντων αυτω αγγελων και εξουσιων και δυναμεων
1 Peter 3:22 Who is gone into heaven, and is on the right hand of God; angels and authorities and powers being made subject unto him.
1 Peter 4:1 χριστου ουν παθοντος υπερ ημων σαρκι και υμεις την αυτην εννοιαν οπλισασθε οτι ο παθων εν σαρκι πεπαυται αμαρτιας
1 Peter 4:1 Forasmuch then as Christ hath suffered for us in the flesh, arm yourselves likewise with the same mind: for he that hath suffered in the flesh hath ceased from sin;
1 Peter 4:2 εις το μηκετι ανθρωπων επιθυμιαις αλλα θεληματι θεου τον επιλοιπον εν σαρκι βιωσαι χρονον
1 Peter 4:2 That he no longer should live the rest of his time in the flesh to the lusts of men, but to the will of God.
1 Peter 4:3 αρκετος γαρ ημιν ο παρεληλυθως χρονος του βιου το θελημα των εθνων κατεργασασθαι πεπορευμενους εν ασελγειαις επιθυμιαις οινοφλυγιαις κωμοις ποτοις και αθεμιτοις ειδωλολατρειαις
1 Peter 4:3 For the time past of our life may suffice us to have wrought the will of the Gentiles, when we walked in lasciviousness, lusts, excess of wine, revellings, banquetings, and abominable idolatries:
1 Peter 4:4 εν ω ξενιζονται μη συντρεχοντων υμων εις την αυτην της ασωτιας αναχυσιν βλασφημουντες
1 Peter 4:4 Wherein they think it strange that ye run not with them to the same excess of riot, speaking evil of you:
1 Peter 4:5 οι αποδωσουσιν λογον τω ετοιμως εχοντι κριναι ζωντας και νεκρους
1 Peter 4:5 Who shall give account to him that is ready to judge the quick and the dead.
1 Peter 4:6 εις τουτο γαρ και νεκροις ευηγγελισθη ινα κριθωσιν μεν κατα ανθρωπους σαρκι ζωσιν δε κατα θεον πνευματι
1 Peter 4:6 For for this cause was the gospel preached also to them that are dead, that they might be judged according to men in the flesh, but live according to God in the spirit.
1 Peter 4:7 παντων δε το τελος ηγγικεν σωφρονησατε ουν και νηψατε εις τας προσευχας
1 Peter 4:7 But the end of all things is at hand: be ye therefore sober, and watch unto prayer.
1 Peter 4:8 προ παντων δε την εις εαυτους αγαπην εκτενη εχοντες οτι αγαπη καλυψει πληθος αμαρτιων
1 Peter 4:8 And above all things have fervent charity among yourselves: for charity shall cover the multitude of sins.
1 Peter 4:9 φιλοξενοι εις αλληλους ανευ γογγυσμων
1 Peter 4:9 Use hospitality one to another without grudging.
1 Peter 4:10 εκαστος καθως ελαβεν χαρισμα εις εαυτους αυτο διακονουντες ως καλοι οικονομοι ποικιλης χαριτος θεου
1 Peter 4:10 As every man hath received the gift, even so minister the same one to another, as good stewards of the manifold grace of God.
1 Peter 4:11 ει τις λαλει ως λογια θεου ει τις διακονει ως εξ ισχυος ης χορηγει ο θεος ινα εν πασιν δοξαζηται ο θεος δια ιησου χριστου ω εστιν η δοξα και το κρατος εις τους αιωνας των αιωνων αμην
1 Peter 4:11 If any man speak, let him speak as the oracles of God; if any man minister, let him do it as of the ability which God giveth: that God in all things may be glorified through Jesus Christ, to whom be praise and dominion for ever and ever.  Amen.
1 Peter 4:12 αγαπητοι μη ξενιζεσθε τη εν υμιν πυρωσει προς πειρασμον υμιν γινομενη ως ξενου υμιν συμβαινοντος
1 Peter 4:12 Beloved, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial which is to try you, as though some strange thing happened unto you:
1 Peter 4:13 αλλα καθο κοινωνειτε τοις του χριστου παθημασιν χαιρετε ινα και εν τη αποκαλυψει της δοξης αυτου χαρητε αγαλλιωμενοι
1 Peter 4:13 But rejoice, inasmuch as ye are partakers of Christ's sufferings; that, when his glory shall be revealed, ye may be glad also with exceeding joy.
1 Peter 4:14 ει ονειδιζεσθε εν ονοματι χριστου μακαριοι οτι το της δοξης και το του θεου πνευμα εφ υμας αναπαυεται κατα μεν αυτους βλασφημειται κατα δε υμας δοξαζεται
1 Peter 4:14 If ye be reproached for the name of Christ, happy are ye; for the spirit of glory and of God resteth upon you: on their part he is evil spoken of, but on your part he is glorified.
1 Peter 4:15 μη γαρ τις υμων πασχετω ως φονευς η κλεπτης η κακοποιος η ως αλλοτριοεπισκοπος
1 Peter 4:15 But let none of you suffer as a murderer, or as a thief, or as an evildoer, or as a busybody in other men's matters.
1 Peter 4:16 ει δε ως χριστιανος μη αισχυνεσθω δοξαζετω δε τον θεον εν τω μερει τουτω
1 Peter 4:16 Yet if any man suffer as a Christian, let him not be ashamed; but let him glorify God on this behalf.
1 Peter 4:17 οτι ο καιρος του αρξασθαι το κριμα απο του οικου του θεου ει δε πρωτον αφ ημων τι το τελος των απειθουντων τω του θεου ευαγγελιω
1 Peter 4:17 For the time is come that judgment must begin at the house of God: and if it first begin at us, what shall the end be of them that obey not the gospel of God?
1 Peter 4:18 και ει ο δικαιος μολις σωζεται ο ασεβης και αμαρτωλος που φανειται
1 Peter 4:18 And if the righteous scarcely be saved, where shall the ungodly and the sinner appear?
1 Peter 4:19 ωστε και οι πασχοντες κατα το θελημα του θεου ως πιστω κτιστη παρατιθεσθωσαν τας ψυχας εαυτων εν αγαθοποιια
1 Peter 4:19 Wherefore let them that suffer according to the will of God commit the keeping of their souls to him in well doing, as unto a faithful Creator.
1 Peter 5:1 πρεσβυτερους τους εν υμιν παρακαλω ο συμπρεσβυτερος και μαρτυς των του χριστου παθηματων ο και της μελλουσης αποκαλυπτεσθαι δοξης κοινωνος
1 Peter 5:1 The elders which are among you I exhort, who am also an elder, and a witness of the sufferings of Christ, and also a partaker of the glory that shall be revealed:
1 Peter 5:2 ποιμανατε το εν υμιν ποιμνιον του θεου επισκοπουντες μη αναγκαστως αλλ εκουσιως μηδε αισχροκερδως αλλα προθυμως
1 Peter 5:2 Feed the flock of God which is among you, taking the oversight thereof, not by constraint, but willingly; not for filthy lucre, but of a ready mind;
1 Peter 5:3 μηδ ως κατακυριευοντες των κληρων αλλα τυποι γινομενοι του ποιμνιου
1 Peter 5:3 Neither as being lords over God's heritage, but being ensamples to the flock.
1 Peter 5:4 και φανερωθεντος του αρχιποιμενος κομιεισθε τον αμαραντινον της δοξης στεφανον
1 Peter 5:4 And when the chief Shepherd shall appear, ye shall receive a crown of glory that fadeth not away.
1 Peter 5:5 ομοιως νεωτεροι υποταγητε πρεσβυτεροις παντες δε αλληλοις υποτασσομενοι την ταπεινοφροσυνην εγκομβωσασθε οτι ο θεος υπερηφανοις αντιτασσεται ταπεινοις δε διδωσιν χαριν
1 Peter 5:5 Likewise, ye younger, submit yourselves unto the elder. Yea, all of you be subject one to another, and be clothed with humility: for God resisteth the proud, and giveth grace to the humble.
1 Peter 5:6 ταπεινωθητε ουν υπο την κραταιαν χειρα του θεου ινα υμας υψωση εν καιρω
1 Peter 5:6 Humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in due time:
1 Peter 5:7 πασαν την μεριμναν υμων επιρριψαντες επ αυτον οτι αυτω μελει περι υμων
1 Peter 5:7 Casting all your care upon him; for he careth for you.
1 Peter 5:8 νηψατε γρηγορησατε οτι ο αντιδικος υμων διαβολος ως λεων ωρυομενος περιπατει ζητων τινα καταπιη
1 Peter 5:8 Be sober, be vigilant; because your adversary the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about, seeking whom he may devour:
1 Peter 5:9 ω αντιστητε στερεοι τη πιστει ειδοτες τα αυτα των παθηματων τη εν κοσμω υμων αδελφοτητι επιτελεισθαι
1 Peter 5:9 Whom resist stedfast in the faith, knowing that the same afflictions are accomplished in your brethren that are in the world.
1 Peter 5:10 ο δε θεος πασης χαριτος ο καλεσας ημας εις την αιωνιον αυτου δοξαν εν χριστω ιησου ολιγον παθοντας αυτος καταρτισαι υμας στηριξαι σθενωσαι θεμελιωσαι
1 Peter 5:10 But the God of all grace, who hath called us unto his eternal glory by Christ Jesus, after that ye have suffered a while, make you perfect, stablish, strengthen, settle you.
1 Peter 5:11 αυτω η δοξα και το κρατος εις τους αιωνας των αιωνων αμην
1 Peter 5:11 To him be glory and dominion for ever and ever. Amen.
1 Peter 5:12 δια σιλουανου υμιν του πιστου αδελφου ως λογιζομαι δι ολιγων εγραψα παρακαλων και επιμαρτυρων ταυτην ειναι αληθη χαριν του θεου εις ην εστηκατε
1 Peter 5:12 By Silvanus, a faithful brother unto you, as I suppose, I have written briefly, exhorting, and testifying that this is the true grace of God wherein ye stand.
1 Peter 5:13 ασπαζεται υμας η εν βαβυλωνι συνεκλεκτη και μαρκος ο υιος μου
1 Peter 5:13 The church that is at Babylon, elected together with you, saluteth you; and so doth Marcus my son.
1 Peter 5:14 ασπασασθε αλληλους εν φιληματι αγαπης ειρηνη υμιν πασιν τοις εν χριστω ιησου αμην
1 Peter 5:14 Greet ye one another with a kiss of charity. Peace be with you all that are in Christ Jesus. Amen.
2 Peter 1:1 συμεων πετρος δουλος και αποστολος ιησου χριστου τοις ισοτιμον ημιν λαχουσιν πιστιν εν δικαιοσυνη του θεου ημων και σωτηρος ιησου χριστου
2 Peter 1:1 Simon Peter, a servant and an apostle of Jesus Christ, to them that have obtained like precious faith with us through the righteousness of God and our Saviour Jesus Christ:
2 Peter 1:2 χαρις υμιν και ειρηνη πληθυνθειη εν επιγνωσει του θεου και ιησου του κυριου ημων
2 Peter 1:2 Grace and peace be multiplied unto you through the knowledge of God, and of Jesus our Lord,
2 Peter 1:3 ως παντα ημιν της θειας δυναμεως αυτου τα προς ζωην και ευσεβειαν δεδωρημενης δια της επιγνωσεως του καλεσαντος ημας δια δοξης και αρετης
2 Peter 1:3 According as his divine power hath given unto us all things that pertain unto life and godliness, through the knowledge of him that hath called us to glory and virtue:
2 Peter 1:4 δι ων τα μεγιστα ημιν και τιμια επαγγελματα δεδωρηται ινα δια τουτων γενησθε θειας κοινωνοι φυσεως αποφυγοντες της εν κοσμω εν επιθυμια φθορας
2 Peter 1:4 Whereby are given unto us exceeding great and precious promises: that by these ye might be partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world through lust.
2 Peter 1:5 και αυτο τουτο δε σπουδην πασαν παρεισενεγκαντες επιχορηγησατε εν τη πιστει υμων την αρετην εν δε τη αρετη την γνωσιν
2 Peter 1:5 And beside this, giving all diligence, add to your faith virtue; and to virtue knowledge;
2 Peter 1:6 εν δε τη γνωσει την εγκρατειαν εν δε τη εγκρατεια την υπομονην εν δε τη υπομονη την ευσεβειαν
2 Peter 1:6 And to knowledge temperance; and to temperance patience; and to patience godliness;
2 Peter 1:7 εν δε τη ευσεβεια την φιλαδελφιαν εν δε τη φιλαδελφια την αγαπην
2 Peter 1:7 And to godliness brotherly kindness; and to brotherly kindness charity.
2 Peter 1:8 ταυτα γαρ υμιν υπαρχοντα και πλεοναζοντα ουκ αργους ουδε ακαρπους καθιστησιν εις την του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου επιγνωσιν
2 Peter 1:8 For if these things be in you, and abound, they make you that ye shall neither be barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ.
2 Peter 1:9 ω γαρ μη παρεστιν ταυτα τυφλος εστιν μυωπαζων ληθην λαβων του καθαρισμου των παλαι αυτου αμαρτιων
2 Peter 1:9 But he that lacketh these things is blind, and cannot see afar off, and hath forgotten that he was purged from his old sins.
2 Peter 1:10 διο μαλλον αδελφοι σπουδασατε βεβαιαν υμων την κλησιν και εκλογην ποιεισθαι ταυτα γαρ ποιουντες ου μη πταισητε ποτε
2 Peter 1:10 Wherefore the rather, brethren, give diligence to make your calling and election sure: for if ye do these things, ye shall never fall:
2 Peter 1:11 ουτως γαρ πλουσιως επιχορηγηθησεται υμιν η εισοδος εις την αιωνιον βασιλειαν του κυριου ημων και σωτηρος ιησου χριστου
2 Peter 1:11 For so an entrance shall be ministered unto you abundantly into the everlasting kingdom of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ.
2 Peter 1:12 διο ουκ αμελησω υμας αει υπομιμνησκειν περι τουτων καιπερ ειδοτας και εστηριγμενους εν τη παρουση αληθεια
2 Peter 1:12 Wherefore I will not be negligent to put you always in remembrance of these things, though ye know them, and be established in the present truth.
2 Peter 1:13 δικαιον δε ηγουμαι εφ οσον ειμι εν τουτω τω σκηνωματι διεγειρειν υμας εν υπομνησει
2 Peter 1:13 Yea, I think it meet, as long as I am in this tabernacle, to stir you up by putting you in remembrance;
2 Peter 1:14 ειδως οτι ταχινη εστιν η αποθεσις του σκηνωματος μου καθως και ο κυριος ημων ιησους χριστος εδηλωσεν μοι
2 Peter 1:14 Knowing that shortly I must put off this my tabernacle, even as our Lord Jesus Christ hath shewed me.
2 Peter 1:15 σπουδασω δε και εκαστοτε εχειν υμας μετα την εμην εξοδον την τουτων μνημην ποιεισθαι
2 Peter 1:15 Moreover I will endeavour that ye may be able after my decease to have these things always in remembrance.
2 Peter 1:16 ου γαρ σεσοφισμενοις μυθοις εξακολουθησαντες εγνωρισαμεν υμιν την του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου δυναμιν και παρουσιαν αλλ εποπται γενηθεντες της εκεινου μεγαλειοτητος
2 Peter 1:16 For we have not followed cunningly devised fables, when we made known unto you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but were eyewitnesses of his majesty.
2 Peter 1:17 λαβων γαρ παρα θεου πατρος τιμην και δοξαν φωνης ενεχθεισης αυτω τοιασδε υπο της μεγαλοπρεπους δοξης ουτος εστιν ο υιος μου ο αγαπητος εις ον εγω ευδοκησα
2 Peter 1:17 For he received from God the Father honour and glory, when there came such a voice to him from the excellent glory, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.
2 Peter 1:18 και ταυτην την φωνην ημεις ηκουσαμεν εξ ουρανου ενεχθεισαν συν αυτω οντες εν τω ορει τω αγιω
2 Peter 1:18 And this voice which came from heaven we heard, when we were with him in the holy mount.
2 Peter 1:19 και εχομεν βεβαιοτερον τον προφητικον λογον ω καλως ποιειτε προσεχοντες ως λυχνω φαινοντι εν αυχμηρω τοπω εως ου ημερα διαυγαση και φωσφορος ανατειλη εν ταις καρδιαις υμων
2 Peter 1:19 We have also a more sure word of prophecy; whereunto ye do well that ye take heed, as unto a light that shineth in a dark place, until the day dawn, and the day star arise in your hearts:
2 Peter 1:20 τουτο πρωτον γινωσκοντες οτι πασα προφητεια γραφης ιδιας επιλυσεως ου γινεται
2 Peter 1:20 Knowing this first, that no prophecy of the scripture is of any private interpretation.
2 Peter 1:21 ου γαρ θεληματι ανθρωπου ηνεχθη ποτε προφητεια αλλ υπο πνευματος αγιου φερομενοι ελαλησαν οι αγιοι θεου ανθρωποι
2 Peter 1:21 For the prophecy came not in old time by the will of man: but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost.
2 Peter 2:1 εγενοντο δε και ψευδοπροφηται εν τω λαω ως και εν υμιν εσονται ψευδοδιδασκαλοι οιτινες παρεισαξουσιν αιρεσεις απωλειας και τον αγορασαντα αυτους δεσποτην αρνουμενοι επαγοντες εαυτοις ταχινην απωλειαν
2 Peter 2:1 But there were false prophets also among the people, even as there shall be false teachers among you, who privily shall bring in damnable heresies, even denying the Lord that bought them, and bring upon themselves swift destruction.
2 Peter 2:2 και πολλοι εξακολουθησουσιν αυτων ταις απωλειαις δι ους η οδος της αληθειας βλασφημηθησεται
2 Peter 2:2 And many shall follow their pernicious ways; by reason of whom the way of truth shall be evil spoken of.
2 Peter 2:3 και εν πλεονεξια πλαστοις λογοις υμας εμπορευσονται οις το κριμα εκπαλαι ουκ αργει και η απωλεια αυτων ου νυσταζει
2 Peter 2:3 And through covetousness shall they with feigned words make merchandise of you: whose judgment now of a long time lingereth not, and their damnation slumbereth not.
2 Peter 2:4 ει γαρ ο θεος αγγελων αμαρτησαντων ουκ εφεισατο αλλα σειραις ζοφου ταρταρωσας παρεδωκεν εις κρισιν τετηρημενους
2 Peter 2:4 For if God spared not the angels that sinned, but cast them down to hell, and delivered them into chains of darkness, to be reserved unto judgment;
2 Peter 2:5 και αρχαιου κοσμου ουκ εφεισατο αλλ ογδοον νωε δικαιοσυνης κηρυκα εφυλαξεν κατακλυσμον κοσμω ασεβων επαξας
2 Peter 2:5 And spared not the old world, but saved Noah the eighth person, a preacher of righteousness, bringing in the flood upon the world of the ungodly;
2 Peter 2:6 και πολεις σοδομων και γομορρας τεφρωσας καταστροφη κατεκρινεν υποδειγμα μελλοντων ασεβειν τεθεικως
2 Peter 2:6 And turning the cities of Sodom and Gomorrha into ashes condemned them with an overthrow, making them an ensample unto those that after should live ungodly;
2 Peter 2:7 και δικαιον λωτ καταπονουμενον υπο της των αθεσμων εν ασελγεια αναστροφης ερρυσατο
2 Peter 2:7 And delivered just Lot, vexed with the filthy conversation of the wicked:
2 Peter 2:8 βλεμματι γαρ και ακοη ο δικαιος εγκατοικων εν αυτοις ημεραν εξ ημερας ψυχην δικαιαν ανομοις εργοις εβασανιζεν
2 Peter 2:8 (For that righteous man dwelling among them, in seeing and hearing, vexed his righteous soul from day to day with their unlawful deeds;)
2 Peter 2:9 οιδεν κυριος ευσεβεις εκ πειρασμου ρυεσθαι αδικους δε εις ημεραν κρισεως κολαζομενους τηρειν
2 Peter 2:9 The Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptations, and to reserve the unjust unto the day of judgment to be punished:
2 Peter 2:10 μαλιστα δε τους οπισω σαρκος εν επιθυμια μιασμου πορευομενους και κυριοτητος καταφρονουντας τολμηται αυθαδεις δοξας ου τρεμουσιν βλασφημουντες
2 Peter 2:10 But chiefly them that walk after the flesh in the lust of uncleanness, and despise government. Presumptuous are they, selfwilled, they are not afraid to speak evil of dignities.
2 Peter 2:11 οπου αγγελοι ισχυι και δυναμει μειζονες οντες ου φερουσιν κατ αυτων παρα κυριω βλασφημον κρισιν
2 Peter 2:11 Whereas angels, which are greater in power and might, bring not railing accusation against them before the Lord.
2 Peter 2:12 ουτοι δε ως αλογα ζωα φυσικα γεγενημενα εις αλωσιν και φθοραν εν οις αγνοουσιν βλασφημουντες εν τη φθορα αυτων καταφθαρησονται
2 Peter 2:12 But these, as natural brute beasts, made to be taken and destroyed, speak evil of the things that they understand not; and shall utterly perish in their own corruption;
2 Peter 2:13 κομιουμενοι μισθον αδικιας ηδονην ηγουμενοι την εν ημερα τρυφην σπιλοι και μωμοι εντρυφωντες εν ταις απαταις αυτων συνευωχουμενοι υμιν
2 Peter 2:13 And shall receive the reward of unrighteousness, as they that count it pleasure to riot in the day time. Spots they are and blemishes, sporting themselves with their own deceivings while they feast with you;
2 Peter 2:14 οφθαλμους εχοντες μεστους μοιχαλιδος και ακαταπαυστους αμαρτιας δελεαζοντες ψυχας αστηρικτους καρδιαν γεγυμνασμενην πλεονεξιαις εχοντες καταρας τεκνα
2 Peter 2:14 Having eyes full of adultery, and that cannot cease from sin; beguiling unstable souls: an heart they have exercised with covetous practices; cursed children:
2 Peter 2:15 καταλιποντες την ευθειαν οδον επλανηθησαν εξακολουθησαντες τη οδω του βαλααμ του βοσορ ος μισθον αδικιας ηγαπησεν
2 Peter 2:15 Which have forsaken the right way, and are gone astray, following the way of Balaam the son of Bosor, who loved the wages of unrighteousness;
2 Peter 2:16 ελεγξιν δε εσχεν ιδιας παρανομιας υποζυγιον αφωνον εν ανθρωπου φωνη φθεγξαμενον εκωλυσεν την του προφητου παραφρονιαν
2 Peter 2:16 But was rebuked for his iniquity: the dumb ass speaking with man's voice forbad the madness of the prophet.
2 Peter 2:17 ουτοι εισιν πηγαι ανυδροι νεφελαι υπο λαιλαπος ελαυνομεναι οις ο ζοφος του σκοτους εις αιωνα τετηρηται
2 Peter 2:17 These are wells without water, clouds that are carried with a tempest; to whom the mist of darkness is reserved for ever.
2 Peter 2:18 υπερογκα γαρ ματαιοτητος φθεγγομενοι δελεαζουσιν εν επιθυμιαις σαρκος ασελγειαις τους οντως αποφυγοντας τους εν πλανη αναστρεφομενους
2 Peter 2:18 For when they speak great swelling words of vanity, they allure through the lusts of the flesh, through much wantonness, those that were clean escaped from them who live in error.
2 Peter 2:19 ελευθεριαν αυτοις επαγγελλομενοι αυτοι δουλοι υπαρχοντες της φθορας ω γαρ τις ηττηται τουτω και δεδουλωται
2 Peter 2:19 While they promise them liberty, they themselves are the servants of corruption: for of whom a man is overcome, of the same is he brought in bondage.
2 Peter 2:20 ει γαρ αποφυγοντες τα μιασματα του κοσμου εν επιγνωσει του κυριου και σωτηρος ιησου χριστου τουτοις δε παλιν εμπλακεντες ηττωνται γεγονεν αυτοις τα εσχατα χειρονα των πρωτων
2 Peter 2:20 For if after they have escaped the pollutions of the world through the knowledge of the Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, they are again entangled therein, and overcome, the latter end is worse with them than the beginning.
2 Peter 2:21 κρειττον γαρ ην αυτοις μη επεγνωκεναι την οδον της δικαιοσυνης η επιγνουσιν επιστρεψαι εκ της παραδοθεισης αυτοις αγιας εντολης
2 Peter 2:21 For it had been better for them not to have known the way of righteousness, than, after they have known it, to turn from the holy commandment delivered unto them.
2 Peter 2:22 συμβεβηκεν δε αυτοις το της αληθους παροιμιας κυων επιστρεψας επι το ιδιον εξεραμα και υς λουσαμενη εις κυλισμα βορβορου
2 Peter 2:22 But it is happened unto them according to the true proverb, The dog is turned to his own vomit again; and the sow that was washed to her wallowing in the mire.
2 Peter 3:1 ταυτην ηδη αγαπητοι δευτεραν υμιν γραφω επιστολην εν αις διεγειρω υμων εν υπομνησει την ειλικρινη διανοιαν
2 Peter 3:1 This second epistle, beloved, I now write unto you; in both which I stir up your pure minds by way of remembrance:
2 Peter 3:2 μνησθηναι των προειρημενων ρηματων υπο των αγιων προφητων και της των αποστολων ημων εντολης του κυριου και σωτηρος
2 Peter 3:2 That ye may be mindful of the words which were spoken before by the holy prophets, and of the commandment of us the apostles of the Lord and Saviour:
2 Peter 3:3 τουτο πρωτον γινωσκοντες οτι ελευσονται επ εσχατου των ημερων εμπαικται κατα τας ιδιας αυτων επιθυμιας πορευομενοι
2 Peter 3:3 Knowing this first, that there shall come in the last days scoffers, walking after their own lusts,
2 Peter 3:4 και λεγοντες που εστιν η επαγγελια της παρουσιας αυτου αφ ης γαρ οι πατερες εκοιμηθησαν παντα ουτως διαμενει απ αρχης κτισεως
2 Peter 3:4 And saying, Where is the promise of his coming? for since the fathers fell asleep, all things continue as they were from the beginning of the creation.
2 Peter 3:5 λανθανει γαρ αυτους τουτο θελοντας οτι ουρανοι ησαν εκπαλαι και γη εξ υδατος και δι υδατος συνεστωσα τω του θεου λογω
2 Peter 3:5 For this they willingly are ignorant of, that by the word of God the heavens were of old, and the earth standing out of the water and in the water:
2 Peter 3:6 δι ων ο τοτε κοσμος υδατι κατακλυσθεις απωλετο
2 Peter 3:6 Whereby the world that then was, being overflowed with water, perished:
2 Peter 3:7 οι δε νυν ουρανοι και η γη αυτου λογω τεθησαυρισμενοι εισιν πυρι τηρουμενοι εις ημεραν κρισεως και απωλειας των ασεβων ανθρωπων
2 Peter 3:7 But the heavens and the earth, which are now, by the same word are kept in store, reserved unto fire against the day of judgment and perdition of ungodly men.
2 Peter 3:8 εν δε τουτο μη λανθανετω υμας αγαπητοι οτι μια ημερα παρα κυριω ως χιλια ετη και χιλια ετη ως ημερα μια
2 Peter 3:8 But, beloved, be not ignorant of this one thing, that one day is with the Lord as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day.
2 Peter 3:9 ου βραδυνει ο κυριος της επαγγελιας ως τινες βραδυτητα ηγουνται αλλα μακροθυμει εις ημας μη βουλομενος τινας απολεσθαι αλλα παντας εις μετανοιαν χωρησαι
2 Peter 3:9 The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness; but is longsuffering to us-ward, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance.
2 Peter 3:10 ηξει δε η ημερα κυριου ως κλεπτης εν νυκτι εν η οι ουρανοι ροιζηδον παρελευσονται στοιχεια δε καυσουμενα λυθησονται και γη και τα εν αυτη εργα κατακαησεται
2 Peter 3:10 But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night; in the which the heavens shall pass away with a great noise, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat, the earth also and the works that are therein shall be burned up.
2 Peter 3:11 τουτων ουν παντων λυομενων ποταπους δει υπαρχειν υμας εν αγιαις αναστροφαις και ευσεβειαις
2 Peter 3:11 Seeing then that all these things shall be dissolved, what manner of persons ought ye to be in all holy conversation and godliness,
2 Peter 3:12 προσδοκωντας και σπευδοντας την παρουσιαν της του θεου ημερας δι ην ουρανοι πυρουμενοι λυθησονται και στοιχεια καυσουμενα τηκεται
2 Peter 3:12 Looking for and hasting unto the coming of the day of God, wherein the heavens being on fire shall be dissolved, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat?
2 Peter 3:13 καινους δε ουρανους και γην καινην κατα το επαγγελμα αυτου προσδοκωμεν εν οις δικαιοσυνη κατοικει
2 Peter 3:13 Nevertheless we, according to his promise, look for new heavens and a new earth, wherein dwelleth righteousness.
2 Peter 3:14 διο αγαπητοι ταυτα προσδοκωντες σπουδασατε ασπιλοι και αμωμητοι αυτω ευρεθηναι εν ειρηνη
2 Peter 3:14 Wherefore, beloved, seeing that ye look for such things, be diligent that ye may be found of him in peace, without spot, and blameless.
2 Peter 3:15 και την του κυριου ημων μακροθυμιαν σωτηριαν ηγεισθε καθως και ο αγαπητος ημων αδελφος παυλος κατα την αυτω δοθεισαν σοφιαν εγραψεν υμιν
2 Peter 3:15 And account that the longsuffering of our Lord is salvation; even as our beloved brother Paul also according to the wisdom given unto him hath written unto you;
2 Peter 3:16 ως και εν πασαις ταις επιστολαις λαλων εν αυταις περι τουτων εν οις εστιν δυσνοητα τινα α οι αμαθεις και αστηρικτοι στρεβλουσιν ως και τας λοιπας γραφας προς την ιδιαν αυτων απωλειαν
2 Peter 3:16 As also in all his epistles, speaking in them of these things; in which are some things hard to be understood, which they that are unlearned and unstable wrest, as they do also the other scriptures, unto their own destruction.
2 Peter 3:17 υμεις ουν αγαπητοι προγινωσκοντες φυλασσεσθε ινα μη τη των αθεσμων πλανη συναπαχθεντες εκπεσητε του ιδιου στηριγμου
2 Peter 3:17 Ye therefore, beloved, seeing ye know these things before, beware lest ye also, being led away with the error of the wicked, fall from your own stedfastness.
2 Peter 3:18 αυξανετε δε εν χαριτι και γνωσει του κυριου ημων και σωτηρος ιησου χριστου αυτω η δοξα και νυν και εις ημεραν αιωνος αμην
2 Peter 3:18 But grow in grace, and in the knowledge of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ. To him be glory both now and for ever.  Amen.
1 John 1:1 ο ην απ αρχης ο ακηκοαμεν ο εωρακαμεν τοις οφθαλμοις ημων ο εθεασαμεθα και αι χειρες ημων εψηλαφησαν περι του λογου της ζωης
1 John 1:1 That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon, and our hands have handled, of the Word of life;
1 John 1:2 και η ζωη εφανερωθη και εωρακαμεν και μαρτυρουμεν και απαγγελλομεν υμιν την ζωην την αιωνιον ητις ην προς τον πατερα και εφανερωθη ημιν
1 John 1:2 (For the life was manifested, and we have seen it, and bear witness, and shew unto you that eternal life, which was with the Father, and was manifested unto us;)
1 John 1:3 ο εωρακαμεν και ακηκοαμεν απαγγελλομεν υμιν ινα και υμεις κοινωνιαν εχητε μεθ ημων και η κοινωνια δε η ημετερα μετα του πατρος και μετα του υιου αυτου ιησου χριστου
1 John 1:3 That which we have seen and heard declare we unto you, that ye also may have fellowship with us: and truly our fellowship is with the Father, and with his Son Jesus Christ.
1 John 1:4 και ταυτα γραφομεν υμιν ινα η χαρα ημων η πεπληρωμενη
1 John 1:4 And these things write we unto you, that your joy may be full.
1 John 1:5 και αυτη εστιν η επαγγελια ην ακηκοαμεν απ αυτου και αναγγελλομεν υμιν οτι ο θεος φως εστιν και σκοτια εν αυτω ουκ εστιν ουδεμια
1 John 1:5 This then is the message which we have heard of him, and declare unto you, that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all.
1 John 1:6 εαν ειπωμεν οτι κοινωνιαν εχομεν μετ αυτου και εν τω σκοτει περιπατωμεν ψευδομεθα και ου ποιουμεν την αληθειαν
1 John 1:6 If we say that we have fellowship with him, and walk in darkness, we lie, and do not the truth:
1 John 1:7 εαν δε εν τω φωτι περιπατωμεν ως αυτος εστιν εν τω φωτι κοινωνιαν εχομεν μετ αλληλων και το αιμα ιησου χριστου του υιου αυτου καθαριζει ημας απο πασης αμαρτιας
1 John 1:7 But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ his Son cleanseth us from all sin.
1 John 1:8 εαν ειπωμεν οτι αμαρτιαν ουκ εχομεν εαυτους πλανωμεν και η αληθεια ουκ εστιν εν ημιν
1 John 1:8 If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us.
1 John 1:9 εαν ομολογωμεν τας αμαρτιας ημων πιστος εστιν και δικαιος ινα αφη ημιν τας αμαρτιας και καθαριση ημας απο πασης αδικιας
1 John 1:9 If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins, and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness.
1 John 1:10 εαν ειπωμεν οτι ουχ ημαρτηκαμεν ψευστην ποιουμεν αυτον και ο λογος αυτου ουκ εστιν εν ημιν
1 John 1:10 If we say that we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us.
1 John 2:1 τεκνια μου ταυτα γραφω υμιν ινα μη αμαρτητε και εαν τις αμαρτη παρακλητον εχομεν προς τον πατερα ιησουν χριστον δικαιον
1 John 2:1 My little children, these things write I unto you, that ye sin not. And if any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous:
1 John 2:2 και αυτος ιλασμος εστιν περι των αμαρτιων ημων ου περι των ημετερων δε μονον αλλα και περι ολου του κοσμου
1 John 2:2 And he is the propitiation for our sins: and not for our's only, but also for the sins of the whole world.
1 John 2:3 και εν τουτω γινωσκομεν οτι εγνωκαμεν αυτον εαν τας εντολας αυτου τηρωμεν
1 John 2:3 And hereby we do know that we know him, if we keep his commandments.
1 John 2:4 ο λεγων εγνωκα αυτον και τας εντολας αυτου μη τηρων ψευστης εστιν και εν τουτω η αληθεια ουκ εστιν
1 John 2:4 He that saith, I know him, and keepeth not his commandments, is a liar, and the truth is not in him.
1 John 2:5 ος δ αν τηρη αυτου τον λογον αληθως εν τουτω η αγαπη του θεου τετελειωται εν τουτω γινωσκομεν οτι εν αυτω εσμεν
1 John 2:5 But whoso keepeth his word, in him verily is the love of God perfected: hereby know we that we are in him.
1 John 2:6 ο λεγων εν αυτω μενειν οφειλει καθως εκεινος περιεπατησεν και αυτος ουτως περιπατειν
1 John 2:6 He that saith he abideth in him ought himself also so to walk, even as he walked.
1 John 2:7 αδελφοι ουκ εντολην καινην γραφω υμιν αλλ εντολην παλαιαν ην ειχετε απ αρχης η εντολη η παλαια εστιν ο λογος ον ηκουσατε απ αρχης
1 John 2:7 Brethren, I write no new commandment unto you, but an old commandment which ye had from the beginning. The old commandment is the word which ye have heard from the beginning.
1 John 2:8 παλιν εντολην καινην γραφω υμιν ο εστιν αληθες εν αυτω και εν υμιν οτι η σκοτια παραγεται και το φως το αληθινον ηδη φαινει
1 John 2:8 Again, a new commandment I write unto you, which thing is true in him and in you: because the darkness is past, and the true light now shineth.
1 John 2:9 ο λεγων εν τω φωτι ειναι και τον αδελφον αυτου μισων εν τη σκοτια εστιν εως αρτι
1 John 2:9 He that saith he is in the light, and hateth his brother, is in darkness even until now.
1 John 2:10 ο αγαπων τον αδελφον αυτου εν τω φωτι μενει και σκανδαλον εν αυτω ουκ εστιν
1 John 2:10 He that loveth his brother abideth in the light, and there is none occasion of stumbling in him.
1 John 2:11 ο δε μισων τον αδελφον αυτου εν τη σκοτια εστιν και εν τη σκοτια περιπατει και ουκ οιδεν που υπαγει οτι η σκοτια ετυφλωσεν τους οφθαλμους αυτου
1 John 2:11 But he that hateth his brother is in darkness, and walketh in darkness, and knoweth not whither he goeth, because that darkness hath blinded his eyes.
1 John 2:12 γραφω υμιν τεκνια οτι αφεωνται υμιν αι αμαρτιαι δια το ονομα αυτου
1 John 2:12 I write unto you, little children, because your sins are forgiven you for his name's sake.
1 John 2:13 γραφω υμιν πατερες οτι εγνωκατε τον απ αρχης γραφω υμιν νεανισκοι οτι νενικηκατε τον πονηρον γραφω υμιν παιδια οτι εγνωκατε τον πατερα
1 John 2:13 I write unto you, fathers, because ye have known him that is from the beginning. I write unto you, young men, because ye have overcome the wicked one. I write unto you, little children, because ye have known the Father.
1 John 2:14 εγραψα υμιν πατερες οτι εγνωκατε τον απ αρχης εγραψα υμιν νεανισκοι οτι ισχυροι εστε και ο λογος του θεου εν υμιν μενει και νενικηκατε τον πονηρον
1 John 2:14 I have written unto you, fathers, because ye have known him that is from the beginning. I have written unto you, young men, because ye are strong, and the word of God abideth in you, and ye have overcome the wicked one.
1 John 2:15 μη αγαπατε τον κοσμον μηδε τα εν τω κοσμω εαν τις αγαπα τον κοσμον ουκ εστιν η αγαπη του πατρος εν αυτω
1 John 2:15 Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world.  If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him.
1 John 2:16 οτι παν το εν τω κοσμω η επιθυμια της σαρκος και η επιθυμια των οφθαλμων και η αλαζονεια του βιου ουκ εστιν εκ του πατρος αλλ εκ του κοσμου εστιν
1 John 2:16 For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, and the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life, is not of the Father, but is of the world.
1 John 2:17 και ο κοσμος παραγεται και η επιθυμια αυτου ο δε ποιων το θελημα του θεου μενει εις τον αιωνα
1 John 2:17 And the world passeth away, and the lust thereof: but he that doeth the will of God abideth for ever.
1 John 2:18 παιδια εσχατη ωρα εστιν και καθως ηκουσατε οτι ο αντιχριστος ερχεται και νυν αντιχριστοι πολλοι γεγονασιν οθεν γινωσκομεν οτι εσχατη ωρα εστιν
1 John 2:18 Little children, it is the last time: and as ye have heard that antichrist shall come, even now are there many antichrists; whereby we know that it is the last time.
1 John 2:19 εξ ημων εξηλθον αλλ ουκ ησαν εξ ημων ει γαρ ησαν εξ ημων μεμενηκεισαν αν μεθ ημων αλλ ινα φανερωθωσιν οτι ουκ εισιν παντες εξ ημων
1 John 2:19 They went out from us, but they were not of us; for if they had been of us, they would no doubt have continued with us: but they went out, that they might be made manifest that they were not all of us.
1 John 2:20 και υμεις χρισμα εχετε απο του αγιου και οιδατε παντα
1 John 2:20 But ye have an unction from the Holy One, and ye know all things.
1 John 2:21 ουκ εγραψα υμιν οτι ουκ οιδατε την αληθειαν αλλ οτι οιδατε αυτην και οτι παν ψευδος εκ της αληθειας ουκ εστιν
1 John 2:21 I have not written unto you because ye know not the truth, but because ye know it, and that no lie is of the truth.
1 John 2:22 τις εστιν ο ψευστης ει μη ο αρνουμενος οτι ιησους ουκ εστιν ο χριστος ουτος εστιν ο αντιχριστος ο αρνουμενος τον πατερα και τον υιον
1 John 2:22 Who is a liar but he that denieth that Jesus is the Christ? He is antichrist, that denieth the Father and the Son.
1 John 2:23 πας ο αρνουμενος τον υιον ουδε τον πατερα εχει
1 John 2:23 Whosoever denieth the Son, the same hath not the Father: he that acknowledgeth the Son hath the Father also.
1 John 2:24 υμεις ουν ο ηκουσατε απ αρχης εν υμιν μενετω εαν εν υμιν μεινη ο απ αρχης ηκουσατε και υμεις εν τω υιω και εν τω πατρι μενειτε
1 John 2:24 Let that therefore abide in you, which ye have heard from the beginning. If that which ye have heard from the beginning shall remain in you, ye also shall continue in the Son, and in the Father.
1 John 2:25 και αυτη εστιν η επαγγελια ην αυτος επηγγειλατο ημιν την ζωην την αιωνιον
1 John 2:25 And this is the promise that he hath promised us, even eternal life.
1 John 2:26 ταυτα εγραψα υμιν περι των πλανωντων υμας
1 John 2:26 These things have I written unto you concerning them that seduce you.
1 John 2:27 και υμεις το χρισμα ο ελαβετε απ αυτου εν υμιν μενει και ου χρειαν εχετε ινα τις διδασκη υμας αλλ ως το αυτο χρισμα διδασκει υμας περι παντων και αληθες εστιν και ουκ εστιν ψευδος και καθως εδιδαξεν υμας μενειτε εν αυτω
1 John 2:27 But the anointing which ye have received of him abideth in you, and ye need not that any man teach you: but as the same anointing teacheth you of all things, and is truth, and is no lie, and even as it hath taught you, ye shall abide in him.
1 John 2:28 και νυν τεκνια μενετε εν αυτω ινα οταν φανερωθη εχωμεν παρρησιαν και μη αισχυνθωμεν απ αυτου εν τη παρουσια αυτου
1 John 2:28 And now, little children, abide in him; that, when he shall appear, we may have confidence, and not be ashamed before him at his coming.
1 John 2:29 εαν ειδητε οτι δικαιος εστιν γινωσκετε οτι πας ο ποιων την δικαιοσυνην εξ αυτου γεγεννηται
1 John 2:29 If ye know that he is righteous, ye know that every one that doeth righteousness is born of him.
1 John 3:1 ιδετε ποταπην αγαπην δεδωκεν ημιν ο πατηρ ινα τεκνα θεου κληθωμεν δια τουτο ο κοσμος ου γινωσκει ημας οτι ουκ εγνω αυτον
1 John 3:1 Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us, that we should be called the sons of God: therefore the world knoweth us not, because it knew him not.
1 John 3:2 αγαπητοι νυν τεκνα θεου εσμεν και ουπω εφανερωθη τι εσομεθα οιδαμεν δε οτι εαν φανερωθη ομοιοι αυτω εσομεθα οτι οψομεθα αυτον καθως εστιν
1 John 3:2 Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be: but we know that, when he shall appear, we shall be like him; for we shall see him as he is.
1 John 3:3 και πας ο εχων την ελπιδα ταυτην επ αυτω αγνιζει εαυτον καθως εκεινος αγνος εστιν
1 John 3:3 And every man that hath this hope in him purifieth himself, even as he is pure.
1 John 3:4 πας ο ποιων την αμαρτιαν και την ανομιαν ποιει και η αμαρτια εστιν η ανομια
1 John 3:4 Whosoever committeth sin transgresseth also the law: for sin is the transgression of the law.
1 John 3:5 και οιδατε οτι εκεινος εφανερωθη ινα τας αμαρτιας ημων αρη και αμαρτια εν αυτω ουκ εστιν
1 John 3:5 And ye know that he was manifested to take away our sins; and in him is no sin.
1 John 3:6 πας ο εν αυτω μενων ουχ αμαρτανει πας ο αμαρτανων ουχ εωρακεν αυτον ουδε εγνωκεν αυτον
1 John 3:6 Whosoever abideth in him sinneth not: whosoever sinneth hath not seen him, neither known him.
1 John 3:7 τεκνια μηδεις πλανατω υμας ο ποιων την δικαιοσυνην δικαιος εστιν καθως εκεινος δικαιος εστιν
1 John 3:7 Little children, let no man deceive you: he that doeth righteousness is righteous, even as he is righteous.
1 John 3:8 ο ποιων την αμαρτιαν εκ του διαβολου εστιν οτι απ αρχης ο διαβολος αμαρτανει εις τουτο εφανερωθη ο υιος του θεου ινα λυση τα εργα του διαβολου
1 John 3:8 He that committeth sin is of the devil; for the devil sinneth from the beginning. For this purpose the Son of God was manifested, that he might destroy the works of the devil.
1 John 3:9 πας ο γεγεννημενος εκ του θεου αμαρτιαν ου ποιει οτι σπερμα αυτου εν αυτω μενει και ου δυναται αμαρτανειν οτι εκ του θεου γεγεννηται
1 John 3:9 Whosoever is born of God doth not commit sin; for his seed remaineth in him: and he cannot sin, because he is born of God.
1 John 3:10 εν τουτω φανερα εστιν τα τεκνα του θεου και τα τεκνα του διαβολου πας ο μη ποιων δικαιοσυνην ουκ εστιν εκ του θεου και ο μη αγαπων τον αδελφον αυτου
1 John 3:10 In this the children of God are manifest, and the children of the devil: whosoever doeth not righteousness is not of God, neither he that loveth not his brother.
1 John 3:11 οτι αυτη εστιν η αγγελια ην ηκουσατε απ αρχης ινα αγαπωμεν αλληλους
1 John 3:11 For this is the message that ye heard from the beginning, that we should love one another.
1 John 3:12 ου καθως καιν εκ του πονηρου ην και εσφαξεν τον αδελφον αυτου και χαριν τινος εσφαξεν αυτον οτι τα εργα αυτου πονηρα ην τα δε του αδελφου αυτου δικαια
1 John 3:12 Not as Cain, who was of that wicked one, and slew his brother.  And wherefore slew he him? Because his own works were evil, and his brother's righteous.
1 John 3:13 μη θαυμαζετε αδελφοι μου ει μισει υμας ο κοσμος
1 John 3:13 Marvel not, my brethren, if the world hate you.
1 John 3:14 ημεις οιδαμεν οτι μεταβεβηκαμεν εκ του θανατου εις την ζωην οτι αγαπωμεν τους αδελφους ο μη αγαπων τον αδελφον μενει εν τω θανατω
1 John 3:14 We know that we have passed from death unto life, because we love the brethren. He that loveth not his brother abideth in death.
1 John 3:15 πας ο μισων τον αδελφον αυτου ανθρωποκτονος εστιν και οιδατε οτι πας ανθρωποκτονος ουκ εχει ζωην αιωνιον εν αυτω μενουσαν
1 John 3:15 Whosoever hateth his brother is a murderer: and ye know that no murderer hath eternal life abiding in him.
1 John 3:16 εν τουτω εγνωκαμεν την αγαπην οτι εκεινος υπερ ημων την ψυχην αυτου εθηκεν και ημεις οφειλομεν υπερ των αδελφων τας ψυχας τιθεναι
1 John 3:16 Hereby perceive we the love of God, because he laid down his life for us: and we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren.
1 John 3:17 ος δ αν εχη τον βιον του κοσμου και θεωρη τον αδελφον αυτου χρειαν εχοντα και κλειση τα σπλαγχνα αυτου απ αυτου πως η αγαπη του θεου μενει εν αυτω
1 John 3:17 But whoso hath this world's good, and seeth his brother have need, and shutteth up his bowels of compassion from him, how dwelleth the love of God in him?
1 John 3:18 τεκνια μου μη αγαπωμεν λογω μηδε γλωσση αλλ εργω και αληθεια
1 John 3:18 My little children, let us not love in word, neither in tongue; but in deed and in truth.
1 John 3:19 και εν τουτω γινωσκομεν οτι εκ της αληθειας εσμεν και εμπροσθεν αυτου πεισομεν τας καρδιας ημων
1 John 3:19 And hereby we know that we are of the truth, and shall assure our hearts before him.
1 John 3:20 οτι εαν καταγινωσκη ημων η καρδια οτι μειζων εστιν ο θεος της καρδιας ημων και γινωσκει παντα
1 John 3:20 For if our heart condemn us, God is greater than our heart, and knoweth all things.
1 John 3:21 αγαπητοι εαν η καρδια ημων μη καταγινωσκη ημων παρρησιαν εχομεν προς τον θεον
1 John 3:21 Beloved, if our heart condemn us not, then have we confidence toward God.
1 John 3:22 και ο εαν αιτωμεν λαμβανομεν παρ αυτου οτι τας εντολας αυτου τηρουμεν και τα αρεστα ενωπιον αυτου ποιουμεν
1 John 3:22 And whatsoever we ask, we receive of him, because we keep his commandments, and do those things that are pleasing in his sight.
1 John 3:23 και αυτη εστιν η εντολη αυτου ινα πιστευσωμεν τω ονοματι του υιου αυτου ιησου χριστου και αγαπωμεν αλληλους καθως εδωκεν εντολην ημιν
1 John 3:23 And this is his commandment, That we should believe on the name of his Son Jesus Christ, and love one another, as he gave us commandment.
1 John 3:24 και ο τηρων τας εντολας αυτου εν αυτω μενει και αυτος εν αυτω και εν τουτω γινωσκομεν οτι μενει εν ημιν εκ του πνευματος ου ημιν εδωκεν
1 John 3:24 And he that keepeth his commandments dwelleth in him, and he in him. And hereby we know that he abideth in us, by the Spirit which he hath given us.
1 John 4:1 αγαπητοι μη παντι πνευματι πιστευετε αλλα δοκιμαζετε τα πνευματα ει εκ του θεου εστιν οτι πολλοι ψευδοπροφηται εξεληλυθασιν εις τον κοσμον
1 John 4:1 Beloved, believe not every spirit, but try the spirits whether they are of God: because many false prophets are gone out into the world.
1 John 4:2 εν τουτω γινωσκετε το πνευμα του θεου παν πνευμα ο ομολογει ιησουν χριστον εν σαρκι εληλυθοτα εκ του θεου εστιν
1 John 4:2 Hereby know ye the Spirit of God: Every spirit that confesseth that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is of God:
1 John 4:3 και παν πνευμα ο μη ομολογει τον ιησουν χριστον εν σαρκι εληλυθοτα εκ του θεου ουκ εστιν και τουτο εστιν το του αντιχριστου ο ακηκοατε οτι ερχεται και νυν εν τω κοσμω εστιν ηδη
1 John 4:3 And every spirit that confesseth not that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is not of God: and this is that spirit of antichrist, whereof ye have heard that it should come; and even now already is it in the world.
1 John 4:4 υμεις εκ του θεου εστε τεκνια και νενικηκατε αυτους οτι μειζων εστιν ο εν υμιν η ο εν τω κοσμω
1 John 4:4 Ye are of God, little children, and have overcome them: because greater is he that is in you, than he that is in the world.
1 John 4:5 αυτοι εκ του κοσμου εισιν δια τουτο εκ του κοσμου λαλουσιν και ο κοσμος αυτων ακουει
1 John 4:5 They are of the world: therefore speak they of the world, and the world heareth them.
1 John 4:6 ημεις εκ του θεου εσμεν ο γινωσκων τον θεον ακουει ημων ος ουκ εστιν εκ του θεου ουκ ακουει ημων εκ τουτου γινωσκομεν το πνευμα της αληθειας και το πνευμα της πλανης
1 John 4:6 We are of God: he that knoweth God heareth us; he that is not of God heareth not us. Hereby know we the spirit of truth, and the spirit of error.
1 John 4:7 αγαπητοι αγαπωμεν αλληλους οτι η αγαπη εκ του θεου εστιν και πας ο αγαπων εκ του θεου γεγεννηται και γινωσκει τον θεον
1 John 4:7 Beloved, let us love one another: for love is of God; and every one that loveth is born of God, and knoweth God.
1 John 4:8 ο μη αγαπων ουκ εγνω τον θεον οτι ο θεος αγαπη εστιν
1 John 4:8 He that loveth not knoweth not God; for God is love.
1 John 4:9 εν τουτω εφανερωθη η αγαπη του θεου εν ημιν οτι τον υιον αυτου τον μονογενη απεσταλκεν ο θεος εις τον κοσμον ινα ζησωμεν δι αυτου
1 John 4:9 In this was manifested the love of God toward us, because that God sent his only begotten Son into the world, that we might live through him.
1 John 4:10 εν τουτω εστιν η αγαπη ουχ οτι ημεις ηγαπησαμεν τον θεον αλλ οτι αυτος ηγαπησεν ημας και απεστειλεν τον υιον αυτου ιλασμον περι των αμαρτιων ημων
1 John 4:10 Herein is love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us, and sent his Son to be the propitiation for our sins.
1 John 4:11 αγαπητοι ει ουτως ο θεος ηγαπησεν ημας και ημεις οφειλομεν αλληλους αγαπαν
1 John 4:11 Beloved, if God so loved us, we ought also to love one another.
1 John 4:12 θεον ουδεις πωποτε τεθεαται εαν αγαπωμεν αλληλους ο θεος εν ημιν μενει και η αγαπη αυτου τετελειωμενη εστιν εν ημιν
1 John 4:12 No man hath seen God at any time. If we love one another, God dwelleth in us, and his love is perfected in us.
1 John 4:13 εν τουτω γινωσκομεν οτι εν αυτω μενομεν και αυτος εν ημιν οτι εκ του πνευματος αυτου δεδωκεν ημιν
1 John 4:13 Hereby know we that we dwell in him, and he in us, because he hath given us of his Spirit.
1 John 4:14 και ημεις τεθεαμεθα και μαρτυρουμεν οτι ο πατηρ απεσταλκεν τον υιον σωτηρα του κοσμου
1 John 4:14 And we have seen and do testify that the Father sent the Son to be the Saviour of the world.
1 John 4:15 ος αν ομολογηση οτι ιησους εστιν ο υιος του θεου ο θεος εν αυτω μενει και αυτος εν τω θεω
1 John 4:15 Whosoever shall confess that Jesus is the Son of God, God dwelleth in him, and he in God.
1 John 4:16 και ημεις εγνωκαμεν και πεπιστευκαμεν την αγαπην ην εχει ο θεος εν ημιν ο θεος αγαπη εστιν και ο μενων εν τη αγαπη εν τω θεω μενει και ο θεος εν αυτω
1 John 4:16 And we have known and believed the love that God hath to us.  God is love; and he that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God, and God in him.
1 John 4:17 εν τουτω τετελειωται η αγαπη μεθ ημων ινα παρρησιαν εχωμεν εν τη ημερα της κρισεως οτι καθως εκεινος εστιν και ημεις εσμεν εν τω κοσμω τουτω
1 John 4:17 Herein is our love made perfect, that we may have boldness in the day of judgment: because as he is, so are we in this world.
1 John 4:18 φοβος ουκ εστιν εν τη αγαπη αλλ η τελεια αγαπη εξω βαλλει τον φοβον οτι ο φοβος κολασιν εχει ο δε φοβουμενος ου τετελειωται εν τη αγαπη
1 John 4:18 There is no fear in love; but perfect love casteth out fear: because fear hath torment. He that feareth is not made perfect in love.
1 John 4:19 ημεις αγαπωμεν αυτον οτι αυτος πρωτος ηγαπησεν ημας
1 John 4:19 We love him, because he first loved us.
1 John 4:20 εαν τις ειπη οτι αγαπω τον θεον και τον αδελφον αυτου μιση ψευστης εστιν ο γαρ μη αγαπων τον αδελφον αυτου ον εωρακεν τον θεον ον ουχ εωρακεν πως δυναται αγαπαν
1 John 4:20 If a man say, I love God, and hateth his brother, he is a liar: for he that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen?
1 John 4:21 και ταυτην την εντολην εχομεν απ αυτου ινα ο αγαπων τον θεον αγαπα και τον αδελφον αυτου
1 John 4:21 And this commandment have we from him, That he who loveth God love his brother also.
1 John 5:1 πας ο πιστευων οτι ιησους εστιν ο χριστος εκ του θεου γεγεννηται και πας ο αγαπων τον γεννησαντα αγαπα και τον γεγεννημενον εξ αυτου
1 John 5:1 Whosoever believeth that Jesus is the Christ is born of God: and every one that loveth him that begat loveth him also that is begotten of him.
1 John 5:2 εν τουτω γινωσκομεν οτι αγαπωμεν τα τεκνα του θεου οταν τον θεον αγαπωμεν και τας εντολας αυτου τηρωμεν
1 John 5:2 By this we know that we love the children of God, when we love God, and keep his commandments.
1 John 5:3 αυτη γαρ εστιν η αγαπη του θεου ινα τας εντολας αυτου τηρωμεν και αι εντολαι αυτου βαρειαι ουκ εισιν
1 John 5:3 For this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments: and his commandments are not grievous.
1 John 5:4 οτι παν το γεγεννημενον εκ του θεου νικα τον κοσμον και αυτη εστιν η νικη η νικησασα τον κοσμον η πιστις ημων
1 John 5:4 For whatsoever is born of God overcometh the world: and this is the victory that overcometh the world, even our faith.
1 John 5:5 τις εστιν ο νικων τον κοσμον ει μη ο πιστευων οτι ιησους εστιν ο υιος του θεου
1 John 5:5 Who is he that overcometh the world, but he that believeth that Jesus is the Son of God?
1 John 5:6 ουτος εστιν ο ελθων δι υδατος και αιματος ιησους ο χριστος ουκ εν τω υδατι μονον αλλ εν τω υδατι και τω αιματι και το πνευμα εστιν το μαρτυρουν οτι το πνευμα εστιν η αληθεια
1 John 5:6 This is he that came by water and blood, even Jesus Christ; not by water only, but by water and blood. And it is the Spirit that beareth witness, because the Spirit is truth.
1 John 5:7 οτι τρεις εισιν οι μαρτυρουντες εν τω ουρανω ο πατηρ ο λογος και το αγιον πνευμα και ουτοι οι τρεις εν εισιν
1 John 5:7 For there are three that bear record in heaven, the Father, the Word, and the Holy Ghost: and these three are one.
1 John 5:8 και τρεις εισιν οι μαρτυρουντες εν τη γη το πνευμα και το υδωρ και το αιμα και οι τρεις εις το εν εισιν
1 John 5:8 And there are three that bear witness in earth, the Spirit, and the water, and the blood: and these three agree in one.
1 John 5:9 ει την μαρτυριαν των ανθρωπων λαμβανομεν η μαρτυρια του θεου μειζων εστιν οτι αυτη εστιν η μαρτυρια του θεου ην μεμαρτυρηκεν περι του υιου αυτου
1 John 5:9 If we receive the witness of men, the witness of God is greater: for this is the witness of God which he hath testified of his Son.
1 John 5:10 ο πιστευων εις τον υιον του θεου εχει την μαρτυριαν εν εαυτω ο μη πιστευων τω θεω ψευστην πεποιηκεν αυτον οτι ου πεπιστευκεν εις την μαρτυριαν ην μεμαρτυρηκεν ο θεος περι του υιου αυτου
1 John 5:10 He that believeth on the Son of God hath the witness in himself: he that believeth not God hath made him a liar; because he believeth not the record that God gave of his Son.
1 John 5:11 και αυτη εστιν η μαρτυρια οτι ζωην αιωνιον εδωκεν ημιν ο θεος και αυτη η ζωη εν τω υιω αυτου εστιν
1 John 5:11 And this is the record, that God hath given to us eternal life, and this life is in his Son.
1 John 5:12 ο εχων τον υιον εχει την ζωην ο μη εχων τον υιον του θεου την ζωην ουκ εχει
1 John 5:12 He that hath the Son hath life; and he that hath not the Son of God hath not life.
1 John 5:13 ταυτα εγραψα υμιν τοις πιστευουσιν εις το ονομα του υιου του θεου ινα ειδητε οτι ζωην εχετε αιωνιον και ινα πιστευητε εις το ονομα του υιου του θεου
1 John 5:13 These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God; that ye may know that ye have eternal life, and that ye may believe on the name of the Son of God.
1 John 5:14 και αυτη εστιν η παρρησια ην εχομεν προς αυτον οτι εαν τι αιτωμεθα κατα το θελημα αυτου ακουει ημων
1 John 5:14 And this is the confidence that we have in him, that, if we ask any thing according to his will, he heareth us:
1 John 5:15 και εαν οιδαμεν οτι ακουει ημων ο αν αιτωμεθα οιδαμεν οτι εχομεν τα αιτηματα α ητηκαμεν παρ αυτου
1 John 5:15 And if we know that he hear us, whatsoever we ask, we know that we have the petitions that we desired of him.
1 John 5:16 εαν τις ιδη τον αδελφον αυτου αμαρτανοντα αμαρτιαν μη προς θανατον αιτησει και δωσει αυτω ζωην τοις αμαρτανουσιν μη προς θανατον εστιν αμαρτια προς θανατον ου περι εκεινης λεγω ινα ερωτηση
1 John 5:16 If any man see his brother sin a sin which is not unto death, he shall ask, and he shall give him life for them that sin not unto death. There is a sin unto death: I do not say that he shall pray for it.
1 John 5:17 πασα αδικια αμαρτια εστιν και εστιν αμαρτια ου προς θανατον
1 John 5:17 All unrighteousness is sin: and there is a sin not unto death.
1 John 5:18 οιδαμεν οτι πας ο γεγεννημενος εκ του θεου ουχ αμαρτανει αλλ ο γεννηθεις εκ του θεου τηρει εαυτον και ο πονηρος ουχ απτεται αυτου
1 John 5:18 We know that whosoever is born of God sinneth not; but he that is begotten of God keepeth himself, and that wicked one toucheth him not.
1 John 5:19 οιδαμεν οτι εκ του θεου εσμεν και ο κοσμος ολος εν τω πονηρω κειται
1 John 5:19 And we know that we are of God, and the whole world lieth in wickedness.
1 John 5:20 οιδαμεν δε οτι ο υιος του θεου ηκει και δεδωκεν ημιν διανοιαν ινα γινωσκωμεν τον αληθινον και εσμεν εν τω αληθινω εν τω υιω αυτου ιησου χριστω ουτος εστιν ο αληθινος θεος και η ζωη αιωνιος
1 John 5:20 And we know that the Son of God is come, and hath given us an understanding, that we may know him that is true, and we are in him that is true, even in his Son Jesus Christ. This is the true God, and eternal life.
1 John 5:21 τεκνια φυλαξατε εαυτους απο των ειδωλων αμην
1 John 5:21 Little children, keep yourselves from idols. Amen.
2 John 1:1 ο πρεσβυτερος εκλεκτη κυρια και τοις τεκνοις αυτης ους εγω αγαπω εν αληθεια και ουκ εγω μονος αλλα και παντες οι εγνωκοτες την αληθειαν
2 John 1:1 The elder unto the elect lady and her children, whom I love in the truth; and not I only, but also all they that have known the truth;
2 John 1:2 δια την αληθειαν την μενουσαν εν ημιν και μεθ ημων εσται εις τον αιωνα
2 John 1:2 For the truth's sake, which dwelleth in us, and shall be with us for ever.
2 John 1:3 εσται μεθ ημων χαρις ελεος ειρηνη παρα θεου πατρος και παρα κυριου ιησου χριστου του υιου του πατρος εν αληθεια και αγαπη
2 John 1:3 Grace be with you, mercy, and peace, from God the Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of the Father, in truth and love.
2 John 1:4 εχαρην λιαν οτι ευρηκα εκ των τεκνων σου περιπατουντας εν αληθεια καθως εντολην ελαβομεν παρα του πατρος
2 John 1:4 I rejoiced greatly that I found of thy children walking in truth, as we have received a commandment from the Father.
2 John 1:5 και νυν ερωτω σε κυρια ουχ ως εντολην γραφω σοι καινην αλλα ην ειχομεν απ αρχης ινα αγαπωμεν αλληλους
2 John 1:5 And now I beseech thee, lady, not as though I wrote a new commandment unto thee, but that which we had from the beginning, that we love one another.
2 John 1:6 και αυτη εστιν η αγαπη ινα περιπατωμεν κατα τας εντολας αυτου αυτη εστιν η εντολη καθως ηκουσατε απ αρχης ινα εν αυτη περιπατητε
2 John 1:6 And this is love, that we walk after his commandments. This is the commandment, That, as ye have heard from the beginning, ye should walk in it.
2 John 1:7 οτι πολλοι πλανοι εισηλθον εις τον κοσμον οι μη ομολογουντες ιησουν χριστον ερχομενον εν σαρκι ουτος εστιν ο πλανος και ο αντιχριστος
2 John 1:7 For many deceivers are entered into the world, who confess not that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh. This is a deceiver and an antichrist.
2 John 1:8 βλεπετε εαυτους ινα μη απολεσωμεν α ειργασαμεθα αλλα μισθον πληρη απολαβωμεν
2 John 1:8 Look to yourselves, that we lose not those things which we have wrought, but that we receive a full reward.
2 John 1:9 πας ο παραβαινων και μη μενων εν τη διδαχη του χριστου θεον ουκ εχει ο μενων εν τη διδαχη του χριστου ουτος και τον πατερα και τον υιον εχει
2 John 1:9 Whosoever transgresseth, and abideth not in the doctrine of Christ, hath not God. He that abideth in the doctrine of Christ, he hath both the Father and the Son.
2 John 1:10 ει τις ερχεται προς υμας και ταυτην την διδαχην ου φερει μη λαμβανετε αυτον εις οικιαν και χαιρειν αυτω μη λεγετε
2 John 1:10 If there come any unto you, and bring not this doctrine, receive him not into your house, neither bid him God speed:
2 John 1:11 ο γαρ λεγων αυτω χαιρειν κοινωνει τοις εργοις αυτου τοις πονηροις
2 John 1:11 For he that biddeth him God speed is partaker of his evil deeds.
2 John 1:12 πολλα εχων υμιν γραφειν ουκ ηβουληθην δια χαρτου και μελανος αλλα ελπιζω ελθειν προς υμας και στομα προς στομα λαλησαι ινα η χαρα ημων η πεπληρωμενη
2 John 1:12 Having many things to write unto you, I would not write with paper and ink: but I trust to come unto you, and speak face to face, that our joy may be full.
2 John 1:13 ασπαζεται σε τα τεκνα της αδελφης σου της εκλεκτης αμην
2 John 1:13 The children of thy elect sister greet thee. Amen.
3 John 1:1 ο πρεσβυτερος γαιω τω αγαπητω ον εγω αγαπω εν αληθεια
3 John 1:1 The elder unto the wellbeloved Gaius, whom I love in the truth.
3 John 1:2 αγαπητε περι παντων ευχομαι σε ευοδουσθαι και υγιαινειν καθως ευοδουται σου η ψυχη
3 John 1:2 Beloved, I wish above all things that thou mayest prosper and be in health, even as thy soul prospereth.
3 John 1:3 εχαρην γαρ λιαν ερχομενων αδελφων και μαρτυρουντων σου τη αληθεια καθως συ εν αληθεια περιπατεις
3 John 1:3 For I rejoiced greatly, when the brethren came and testified of the truth that is in thee, even as thou walkest in the truth.
3 John 1:4 μειζοτεραν τουτων ουκ εχω χαραν ινα ακουω τα εμα τεκνα εν αληθεια περιπατουντα
3 John 1:4 I have no greater joy than to hear that my children walk in truth.
3 John 1:5 αγαπητε πιστον ποιεις ο εαν εργαση εις τους αδελφους και εις τους ξενους
3 John 1:5 Beloved, thou doest faithfully whatsoever thou doest to the brethren, and to strangers;
3 John 1:6 οι εμαρτυρησαν σου τη αγαπη ενωπιον εκκλησιας ους καλως ποιησεις προπεμψας αξιως του θεου
3 John 1:6 Which have borne witness of thy charity before the church: whom if thou bring forward on their journey after a godly sort, thou shalt do well:
3 John 1:7 υπερ γαρ του ονοματος εξηλθον μηδεν λαμβανοντες απο των εθνων
3 John 1:7 Because that for his name's sake they went forth, taking nothing of the Gentiles.
3 John 1:8 ημεις ουν οφειλομεν απολαμβανειν τους τοιουτους ινα συνεργοι γινωμεθα τη αληθεια
3 John 1:8 We therefore ought to receive such, that we might be fellowhelpers to the truth.
3 John 1:9 εγραψα τη εκκλησια αλλ ο φιλοπρωτευων αυτων διοτρεφης ουκ επιδεχεται ημας
3 John 1:9 I wrote unto the church: but Diotrephes, who loveth to have the preeminence among them, receiveth us not.
3 John 1:10 δια τουτο εαν ελθω υπομνησω αυτου τα εργα α ποιει λογοις πονηροις φλυαρων ημας και μη αρκουμενος επι τουτοις ουτε αυτος επιδεχεται τους αδελφους και τους βουλομενους κωλυει και εκ της εκκλησιας εκβαλλει
3 John 1:10 Wherefore, if I come, I will remember his deeds which he doeth, prating against us with malicious words: and not content therewith, neither doth he himself receive the brethren, and forbiddeth them that would, and casteth them out of the church.
3 John 1:11 αγαπητε μη μιμου το κακον αλλα το αγαθον ο αγαθοποιων εκ του θεου εστιν ο δε κακοποιων ουχ εωρακεν τον θεον
3 John 1:11 Beloved, follow not that which is evil, but that which is good. He that doeth good is of God: but he that doeth evil hath not seen God.
3 John 1:12 δημητριω μεμαρτυρηται υπο παντων και υπ αυτης της αληθειας και ημεις δε μαρτυρουμεν και οιδατε οτι η μαρτυρια ημων αληθης εστιν
3 John 1:12 Demetrius hath good report of all men, and of the truth itself: yea, and we also bear record; and ye know that our record is true.
3 John 1:13 πολλα ειχον γραφειν αλλ ου θελω δια μελανος και καλαμου σοι γραψαι
3 John 1:13 I had many things to write, but I will not with ink and pen write unto thee:
3 John 1:14 ελπιζω δε ευθεως ιδειν σε και στομα προς στομα λαλησομεν ειρηνη σοι ασπαζονται σε οι φιλοι ασπαζου τους φιλους κατ ονομα
3 John 1:14 But I trust I shall shortly see thee, and we shall speak face to face. Peace be to thee. Our friends salute thee. Greet the friends by name.
Jude 1:1 ιουδας ιησου χριστου δουλος αδελφος δε ιακωβου τοις εν θεω πατρι ηγιασμενοις και ιησου χριστω τετηρημενοις κλητοις
Jude 1:1 Jude, the servant of Jesus Christ, and brother of James, to them that are sanctified by God the Father, and preserved in Jesus Christ, and called:
Jude 1:2 ελεος υμιν και ειρηνη και αγαπη πληθυνθειη
Jude 1:2 Mercy unto you, and peace, and love, be multiplied.
Jude 1:3 αγαπητοι πασαν σπουδην ποιουμενος γραφειν υμιν περι της κοινης σωτηριας αναγκην εσχον γραψαι υμιν παρακαλων επαγωνιζεσθαι τη απαξ παραδοθειση τοις αγιοις πιστει
Jude 1:3 Beloved, when I gave all diligence to write unto you of the common salvation, it was needful for me to write unto you, and exhort you that ye should earnestly contend for the faith which was once delivered unto the saints.
Jude 1:4 παρεισεδυσαν γαρ τινες ανθρωποι οι παλαι προγεγραμμενοι εις τουτο το κριμα ασεβεις την του θεου ημων χαριν μετατιθεντες εις ασελγειαν και τον μονον δεσποτην θεον και κυριον ημων ιησουν χριστον αρνουμενοι
Jude 1:4 For there are certain men crept in unawares, who were before of old ordained to this condemnation, ungodly men, turning the grace of our God into lasciviousness, and denying the only Lord God, and our Lord Jesus Christ.
Jude 1:5 υπομνησαι δε υμας βουλομαι ειδοτας υμας απαξ τουτο οτι ο κυριος λαον εκ γης αιγυπτου σωσας το δευτερον τους μη πιστευσαντας απωλεσεν
Jude 1:5 I will therefore put you in remembrance, though ye once knew this, how that the Lord, having saved the people out of the land of Egypt, afterward destroyed them that believed not.
Jude 1:6 αγγελους τε τους μη τηρησαντας την εαυτων αρχην αλλα απολιποντας το ιδιον οικητηριον εις κρισιν μεγαλης ημερας δεσμοις αιδιοις υπο ζοφον τετηρηκεν
Jude 1:6 And the angels which kept not their first estate, but left their own habitation, he hath reserved in everlasting chains under darkness unto the judgment of the great day.
Jude 1:7 ως σοδομα και γομορρα και αι περι αυτας πολεις τον ομοιον τουτοις τροπον εκπορνευσασαι και απελθουσαι οπισω σαρκος ετερας προκεινται δειγμα πυρος αιωνιου δικην υπεχουσαι
Jude 1:7 Even as Sodom and Gomorrha, and the cities about them in like manner, giving themselves over to fornication, and going after strange flesh, are set forth for an example, suffering the vengeance of eternal fire.
Jude 1:8 ομοιως μεντοι και ουτοι ενυπνιαζομενοι σαρκα μεν μιαινουσιν κυριοτητα δε αθετουσιν δοξας δε βλασφημουσιν
Jude 1:8 Likewise also these filthy dreamers defile the flesh, despise dominion, and speak evil of dignities.
Jude 1:9 ο δε μιχαηλ ο αρχαγγελος οτε τω διαβολω διακρινομενος διελεγετο περι του μωσεως σωματος ουκ ετολμησεν κρισιν επενεγκειν βλασφημιας αλλ ειπεν επιτιμησαι σοι κυριος
Jude 1:9 Yet Michael the archangel, when contending with the devil he disputed about the body of Moses, durst not bring against him a railing accusation, but said, The Lord rebuke thee.
Jude 1:10 ουτοι δε οσα μεν ουκ οιδασιν βλασφημουσιν οσα δε φυσικως ως τα αλογα ζωα επιστανται εν τουτοις φθειρονται
Jude 1:10 But these speak evil of those things which they know not: but what they know naturally, as brute beasts, in those things they corrupt themselves.
Jude 1:11 ουαι αυτοις οτι τη οδω του καιν επορευθησαν και τη πλανη του βαλααμ μισθου εξεχυθησαν και τη αντιλογια του κορε απωλοντο
Jude 1:11 Woe unto them! for they have gone in the way of Cain, and ran greedily after the error of Balaam for reward, and perished in the gainsaying of Core.
Jude 1:12 ουτοι εισιν εν ταις αγαπαις υμων σπιλαδες συνευωχουμενοι αφοβως εαυτους ποιμαινοντες νεφελαι ανυδροι υπο ανεμων περιφερομεναι δενδρα φθινοπωρινα ακαρπα δις αποθανοντα εκριζωθεντα
Jude 1:12 These are spots in your feasts of charity, when they feast with you, feeding themselves without fear: clouds they are without water, carried about of winds; trees whose fruit withereth, without fruit, twice dead, plucked up by the roots;
Jude 1:13 κυματα αγρια θαλασσης επαφριζοντα τας εαυτων αισχυνας αστερες πλανηται οις ο ζοφος του σκοτους εις τον αιωνα τετηρηται
Jude 1:13 Raging waves of the sea, foaming out their own shame; wandering stars, to whom is reserved the blackness of darkness for ever.
Jude 1:14 προεφητευσεν δε και τουτοις εβδομος απο αδαμ ενωχ λεγων ιδου ηλθεν κυριος εν μυριασιν αγιαις αυτου
Jude 1:14 And Enoch also, the seventh from Adam, prophesied of these, saying, Behold, the Lord cometh with ten thousands of his saints,
Jude 1:15 ποιησαι κρισιν κατα παντων και εξελεγξαι παντας τους ασεβεις αυτων περι παντων των εργων ασεβειας αυτων ων ησεβησαν και περι παντων των σκληρων ων ελαλησαν κατ αυτου αμαρτωλοι ασεβεις
Jude 1:15 To execute judgment upon all, and to convince all that are ungodly among them of all their ungodly deeds which they have ungodly committed, and of all their hard speeches which ungodly sinners have spoken against him.
Jude 1:16 ουτοι εισιν γογγυσται μεμψιμοιροι κατα τας επιθυμιας αυτων πορευομενοι και το στομα αυτων λαλει υπερογκα θαυμαζοντες προσωπα ωφελειας χαριν
Jude 1:16 These are murmurers, complainers, walking after their own lusts; and their mouth speaketh great swelling words, having men's persons in admiration because of advantage.
Jude 1:17 υμεις δε αγαπητοι μνησθητε των ρηματων των προειρημενων υπο των αποστολων του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου
Jude 1:17 But, beloved, remember ye the words which were spoken before of the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ;
Jude 1:18 οτι ελεγον υμιν οτι εν εσχατω χρονω εσονται εμπαικται κατα τας εαυτων επιθυμιας πορευομενοι των ασεβειων
Jude 1:18 How that they told you there should be mockers in the last time, who should walk after their own ungodly lusts.
Jude 1:19 ουτοι εισιν οι αποδιοριζοντες ψυχικοι πνευμα μη εχοντες
Jude 1:19 These be they who separate themselves, sensual, having not the Spirit.
Jude 1:20 υμεις δε αγαπητοι τη αγιωτατη υμων πιστει εποικοδομουντες εαυτους εν πνευματι αγιω προσευχομενοι
Jude 1:20 But ye, beloved, building up yourselves on your most holy faith, praying in the Holy Ghost,
Jude 1:21 εαυτους εν αγαπη θεου τηρησατε προσδεχομενοι το ελεος του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου εις ζωην αιωνιον
Jude 1:21 Keep yourselves in the love of God, looking for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ unto eternal life.
Jude 1:22 και ους μεν ελεειτε διακρινομενοι
Jude 1:22 And of some have compassion, making a difference:
Jude 1:23 ους δε εν φοβω σωζετε εκ του πυρος αρπαζοντες μισουντες και τον απο της σαρκος εσπιλωμενον χιτωνα
Jude 1:23 And others save with fear, pulling them out of the fire; hating even the garment spotted by the flesh.
Jude 1:24 τω δε δυναμενω φυλαξαι αυτους απταιστους και στησαι κατενωπιον της δοξης αυτου αμωμους εν αγαλλιασει
Jude 1:24 Now unto him that is able to keep you from falling, and to present you faultless before the presence of his glory with exceeding joy,
Jude 1:25 μονω σοφω θεω σωτηρι ημων δοξα και μεγαλωσυνη κρατος και εξουσια και νυν και εις παντας τους αιωνας αμην
Jude 1:25 To the only wise God our Saviour, be glory and majesty, dominion and power, both now and ever. Amen.
Revelation 1:1 αποκαλυψις ιησου χριστου ην εδωκεν αυτω ο θεος δειξαι τοις δουλοις αυτου α δει γενεσθαι εν ταχει και εσημανεν αποστειλας δια του αγγελου αυτου τω δουλω αυτου ιωαννη
Revelation 1:1 The Revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave unto him, to shew unto his servants things which must shortly come to pass; and he sent and signified it by his angel unto his servant John:
Revelation 1:2 ος εμαρτυρησεν τον λογον του θεου και την μαρτυριαν ιησου χριστου οσα τε ειδεν
Revelation 1:2 Who bare record of the word of God, and of the testimony of Jesus Christ, and of all things that he saw.
Revelation 1:3 μακαριος ο αναγινωσκων και οι ακουοντες τους λογους της προφητειας και τηρουντες τα εν αυτη γεγραμμενα ο γαρ καιρος εγγυς
Revelation 1:3 Blessed is he that readeth, and they that hear the words of this prophecy, and keep those things which are written therein: for the time is at hand.
Revelation 1:4 ιωαννης ταις επτα εκκλησιαις ταις εν τη ασια χαρις υμιν και ειρηνη απο του ο ων και ο ην και ο ερχομενος και απο των επτα πνευματων α εστιν ενωπιον του θρονου αυτου
Revelation 1:4 John to the seven churches which are in Asia: Grace be unto you, and peace, from him which is, and which was, and which is to come; and from the seven Spirits which are before his throne;
Revelation 1:5 και απο ιησου χριστου ο μαρτυς ο πιστος ο πρωτοτοκος εκ των νεκρων και ο αρχων των βασιλεων της γης τω αγαπησαντι ημας και λουσαντι ημας απο των αμαρτιων ημων εν τω αιματι αυτου
Revelation 1:5 And from Jesus Christ, who is the faithful witness, and the first begotten of the dead, and the prince of the kings of the earth. Unto him that loved us, and washed us from our sins in his own blood,
Revelation 1:6 και εποιησεν ημας βασιλεις και ιερεις τω θεω και πατρι αυτου αυτω η δοξα και το κρατος εις τους αιωνας των αιωνων αμην
Revelation 1:6 And hath made us kings and priests unto God and his Father; to him be glory and dominion for ever and ever. Amen.
Revelation 1:7 ιδου ερχεται μετα των νεφελων και οψεται αυτον πας οφθαλμος και οιτινες αυτον εξεκεντησαν και κοψονται επ αυτον πασαι αι φυλαι της γης ναι αμην
Revelation 1:7 Behold, he cometh with clouds; and every eye shall see him, and they also which pierced him: and all kindreds of the earth shall wail because of him. Even so, Amen.
Revelation 1:8 εγω ειμι το α και το ω αρχη και τελος λεγει ο κυριος ο ων και ο ην και ο ερχομενος ο παντοκρατωρ
Revelation 1:8 I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the ending, saith the Lord, which is, and which was, and which is to come, the Almighty.
Revelation 1:9 εγω ιωαννης ο και αδελφος υμων και συγκοινωνος εν τη θλιψει και εν τη βασιλεια και υπομονη ιησου χριστου εγενομην εν τη νησω τη καλουμενη πατμω δια τον λογον του θεου και δια την μαρτυριαν ιησου χριστου
Revelation 1:9 I John, who also am your brother, and companion in tribulation, and in the kingdom and patience of Jesus Christ, was in the isle that is called Patmos, for the word of God, and for the testimony of Jesus Christ.
Revelation 1:10 εγενομην εν πνευματι εν τη κυριακη ημερα και ηκουσα οπισω μου φωνην μεγαλην ως σαλπιγγος
Revelation 1:10 I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day, and heard behind me a great voice, as of a trumpet,
Revelation 1:11 λεγουσης εγω ειμι το α και το ω ο πρωτος και ο εσχατος και ο βλεπεις γραψον εις βιβλιον και πεμψον ταις εκκλησιαις ταις εν ασια εις εφεσον και εις σμυρναν και εις περγαμον και εις θυατειρα και εις σαρδεις και εις φιλαδελφειαν και εις λαοδικειαν
Revelation 1:11 Saying, I am Alpha and Omega, the first and the last: and, What thou seest, write in a book, and send it unto the seven churches which are in Asia; unto Ephesus, and unto Smyrna, and unto Pergamos, and unto Thyatira, and unto Sardis, and unto Philadelphia, and unto Laodicea.
Revelation 1:12 και επεστρεψα βλεπειν την φωνην ητις ελαλησεν μετ εμου και επιστρεψας ειδον επτα λυχνιας χρυσας
Revelation 1:12 And I turned to see the voice that spake with me. And being turned, I saw seven golden candlesticks;
Revelation 1:13 και εν μεσω των επτα λυχνιων ομοιον υιω ανθρωπου ενδεδυμενον ποδηρη και περιεζωσμενον προς τοις μαστοις ζωνην χρυσην
Revelation 1:13 And in the midst of the seven candlesticks one like unto the Son of man, clothed with a garment down to the foot, and girt about the paps with a golden girdle.
Revelation 1:14 η δε κεφαλη αυτου και αι τριχες λευκαι ωσει εριον λευκον ως χιων και οι οφθαλμοι αυτου ως φλοξ πυρος
Revelation 1:14 His head and his hairs were white like wool, as white as snow; and his eyes were as a flame of fire;
Revelation 1:15 και οι ποδες αυτου ομοιοι χαλκολιβανω ως εν καμινω πεπυρωμενοι και η φωνη αυτου ως φωνη υδατων πολλων
Revelation 1:15 And his feet like unto fine brass, as if they burned in a furnace; and his voice as the sound of many waters.
Revelation 1:16 και εχων εν τη δεξια αυτου χειρι αστερας επτα και εκ του στοματος αυτου ρομφαια διστομος οξεια εκπορευομενη και η οψις αυτου ως ο ηλιος φαινει εν τη δυναμει αυτου
Revelation 1:16 And he had in his right hand seven stars: and out of his mouth went a sharp twoedged sword: and his countenance was as the sun shineth in his strength.
Revelation 1:17 και οτε ειδον αυτον επεσα προς τους ποδας αυτου ως νεκρος και επεθηκεν την δεξιαν αυτου χειρα επ εμε λεγων μοι μη φοβου εγω ειμι ο πρωτος και ο εσχατος
Revelation 1:17 And when I saw him, I fell at his feet as dead. And he laid his right hand upon me, saying unto me, Fear not; I am the first and the last:
Revelation 1:18 και ο ζων και εγενομην νεκρος και ιδου ζων ειμι εις τους αιωνας των αιωνων αμην και εχω τας κλεις του αδου και του θανατου
Revelation 1:18 I am he that liveth, and was dead; and, behold, I am alive for evermore, Amen; and have the keys of hell and of death.
Revelation 1:19 γραψον α ειδες και α εισιν και α μελλει γινεσθαι μετα ταυτα
Revelation 1:19 Write the things which thou hast seen, and the things which are, and the things which shall be hereafter;
Revelation 1:20 το μυστηριον των επτα αστερων ων ειδες επι της δεξιας μου και τας επτα λυχνιας τας χρυσας οι επτα αστερες αγγελοι των επτα εκκλησιων εισιν και αι επτα λυχνιαι ας ειδες επτα εκκλησιαι εισιν
Revelation 1:20 The mystery of the seven stars which thou sawest in my right hand, and the seven golden candlesticks. The seven stars are the angels of the seven churches: and the seven candlesticks which thou sawest are the seven churches.
Revelation 2:1 τω αγγελω της εφεσινης εκκλησιας γραψον ταδε λεγει ο κρατων τους επτα αστερας εν τη δεξια αυτου ο περιπατων εν μεσω των επτα λυχνιων των χρυσων
Revelation 2:1 Unto the angel of the church of Ephesus write; These things saith he that holdeth the seven stars in his right hand, who walketh in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks;
Revelation 2:2 οιδα τα εργα σου και τον κοπον σου και την υπομονην σου και οτι ου δυνη βαστασαι κακους και επειρασω τους φασκοντας ειναι αποστολους και ουκ εισιν και ευρες αυτους ψευδεις
Revelation 2:2 I know thy works, and thy labour, and thy patience, and how thou canst not bear them which are evil: and thou hast tried them which say they are apostles, and are not, and hast found them liars:
Revelation 2:3 και εβαστασας και υπομονην εχεις και δια το ονομα μου κεκοπιακας και ου κεκμηκας
Revelation 2:3 And hast borne, and hast patience, and for my name's sake hast laboured, and hast not fainted.
Revelation 2:4 αλλ εχω κατα σου οτι την αγαπην σου την πρωτην αφηκας
Revelation 2:4 Nevertheless I have somewhat against thee, because thou hast left thy first love.
Revelation 2:5 μνημονευε ουν ποθεν εκπεπτωκας και μετανοησον και τα πρωτα εργα ποιησον ει δε μη ερχομαι σοι ταχει και κινησω την λυχνιαν σου εκ του τοπου αυτης εαν μη μετανοησης
Revelation 2:5 Remember therefore from whence thou art fallen, and repent, and do the first works; or else I will come unto thee quickly, and will remove thy candlestick out of his place, except thou repent.
Revelation 2:6 αλλα τουτο εχεις οτι μισεις τα εργα των νικολαιτων α καγω μισω
Revelation 2:6 But this thou hast, that thou hatest the deeds of the Nicolaitanes, which I also hate.
Revelation 2:7 ο εχων ους ακουσατω τι το πνευμα λεγει ταις εκκλησιαις τω νικωντι δωσω αυτω φαγειν εκ του ξυλου της ζωης ο εστιν εν μεσω του παραδεισου του θεου
Revelation 2:7 He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches; To him that overcometh will I give to eat of the tree of life, which is in the midst of the paradise of God.
Revelation 2:8 και τω αγγελω της εκκλησιας σμυρναιων γραψον ταδε λεγει ο πρωτος και ο εσχατος ος εγενετο νεκρος και εζησεν
Revelation 2:8 And unto the angel of the church in Smyrna write; These things saith the first and the last, which was dead, and is alive;
Revelation 2:9 οιδα σου τα εργα και την θλιψιν και την πτωχειαν πλουσιος δε ει και την βλασφημιαν των λεγοντων ιουδαιους ειναι εαυτους και ουκ εισιν αλλα συναγωγη του σατανα
Revelation 2:9 I know thy works, and tribulation, and poverty, (but thou art rich) and I know the blasphemy of them which say they are Jews, and are not, but are the synagogue of Satan.
Revelation 2:10 μηδεν φοβου α μελλεις πασχειν ιδου μελλει βαλειν εξ υμων ο διαβολος εις φυλακην ινα πειρασθητε και εξετε θλιψιν ημερων δεκα γινου πιστος αχρι θανατου και δωσω σοι τον στεφανον της ζωης
Revelation 2:10 Fear none of those things which thou shalt suffer: behold, the devil shall cast some of you into prison, that ye may be tried; and ye shall have tribulation ten days: be thou faithful unto death, and I will give thee a crown of life.
Revelation 2:11 ο εχων ους ακουσατω τι το πνευμα λεγει ταις εκκλησιαις ο νικων ου μη αδικηθη εκ του θανατου του δευτερου
Revelation 2:11 He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches; He that overcometh shall not be hurt of the second death.
Revelation 2:12 και τω αγγελω της εν περγαμω εκκλησιας γραψον ταδε λεγει ο εχων την ρομφαιαν την διστομον την οξειαν
Revelation 2:12 And to the angel of the church in Pergamos write; These things saith he which hath the sharp sword with two edges;
Revelation 2:13 οιδα τα εργα σου και που κατοικεις οπου ο θρονος του σατανα και κρατεις το ονομα μου και ουκ ηρνησω την πιστιν μου και εν ταις ημεραις εν αις αντιπας ο μαρτυς μου ο πιστος ος απεκτανθη παρ υμιν οπου κατοικει ο σατανας
Revelation 2:13 I know thy works, and where thou dwellest, even where Satan's seat is: and thou holdest fast my name, and hast not denied my faith, even in those days wherein Antipas was my faithful martyr, who was slain among you, where Satan dwelleth.
Revelation 2:14 αλλ εχω κατα σου ολιγα οτι εχεις εκει κρατουντας την διδαχην βαλααμ ος εδιδασκεν εν τω βαλακ βαλειν σκανδαλον ενωπιον των υιων ισραηλ φαγειν ειδωλοθυτα και πορνευσαι
Revelation 2:14 But I have a few things against thee, because thou hast there them that hold the doctrine of Balaam, who taught Balac to cast a stumblingblock before the children of Israel, to eat things sacrificed unto idols, and to commit fornication.
Revelation 2:15 ουτως εχεις και συ κρατουντας την διδαχην των νικολαιτων ο μισω
Revelation 2:15 So hast thou also them that hold the doctrine of the Nicolaitanes, which thing I hate.
Revelation 2:16 μετανοησον ει δε μη ερχομαι σοι ταχυ και πολεμησω μετ αυτων εν τη ρομφαια του στοματος μου
Revelation 2:16 Repent; or else I will come unto thee quickly, and will fight against them with the sword of my mouth.
Revelation 2:17 ο εχων ους ακουσατω τι το πνευμα λεγει ταις εκκλησιαις τω νικωντι δωσω αυτω φαγειν απο του μαννα του κεκρυμμενου και δωσω αυτω ψηφον λευκην και επι την ψηφον ονομα καινον γεγραμμενον ο ουδεις εγνω ει μη ο λαμβανων
Revelation 2:17 He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches; To him that overcometh will I give to eat of the hidden manna, and will give him a white stone, and in the stone a new name written, which no man knoweth saving he that receiveth it.
Revelation 2:18 και τω αγγελω της εν θυατειροις εκκλησιας γραψον ταδε λεγει ο υιος του θεου ο εχων τους οφθαλμους αυτου ως φλογα πυρος και οι ποδες αυτου ομοιοι χαλκολιβανω
Revelation 2:18 And unto the angel of the church in Thyatira write; These things saith the Son of God, who hath his eyes like unto a flame of fire, and his feet are like fine brass;
Revelation 2:19 οιδα σου τα εργα και την αγαπην και την διακονιαν και την πιστιν και την υπομονην σου και τα εργα σου και τα εσχατα πλειονα των πρωτων
Revelation 2:19 I know thy works, and charity, and service, and faith, and thy patience, and thy works; and the last to be more than the first.
Revelation 2:20 αλλ εχω κατα σου ολιγα οτι εας την γυναικα ιεζαβηλ την λεγουσαν εαυτην προφητιν διδασκειν και πλανασθαι εμους δουλους πορνευσαι και ειδωλοθυτα φαγειν
Revelation 2:20 Notwithstanding I have a few things against thee, because thou sufferest that woman Jezebel, which calleth herself a prophetess, to teach and to seduce my servants to commit fornication, and to eat things sacrificed unto idols.
Revelation 2:21 και εδωκα αυτη χρονον ινα μετανοηση εκ της πορνειας αυτης και ου μετενοησεν
Revelation 2:21 And I gave her space to repent of her fornication; and she repented not.
Revelation 2:22 ιδου εγω βαλλω αυτην εις κλινην και τους μοιχευοντας μετ αυτης εις θλιψιν μεγαλην εαν μη μετανοησωσιν εκ των εργων αυτων
Revelation 2:22 Behold, I will cast her into a bed, and them that commit adultery with her into great tribulation, except they repent of their deeds.
Revelation 2:23 και τα τεκνα αυτης αποκτενω εν θανατω και γνωσονται πασαι αι εκκλησιαι οτι εγω ειμι ο ερευνων νεφρους και καρδιας και δωσω υμιν εκαστω κατα τα εργα υμων
Revelation 2:23 And I will kill her children with death; and all the churches shall know that I am he which searcheth the reins and hearts: and I will give unto every one of you according to your works.
Revelation 2:24 υμιν δε λεγω και λοιποις τοις εν θυατειροις οσοι ουκ εχουσιν την διδαχην ταυτην και οιτινες ουκ εγνωσαν τα βαθη του σατανα ως λεγουσιν ου βαλω εφ υμας αλλο βαρος
Revelation 2:24 But unto you I say, and unto the rest in Thyatira, as many as have not this doctrine, and which have not known the depths of Satan, as they speak; I will put upon you none other burden.
Revelation 2:25 πλην ο εχετε κρατησατε αχρις ου αν ηξω
Revelation 2:25 But that which ye have already hold fast till I come.
Revelation 2:26 και ο νικων και ο τηρων αχρι τελους τα εργα μου δωσω αυτω εξουσιαν επι των εθνων
Revelation 2:26 And he that overcometh, and keepeth my works unto the end, to him will I give power over the nations:
Revelation 2:27 και ποιμανει αυτους εν ραβδω σιδηρα ως τα σκευη τα κεραμικα συντριβεται ως καγω ειληφα παρα του πατρος μου
Revelation 2:27 And he shall rule them with a rod of iron; as the vessels of a potter shall they be broken to shivers: even as I received of my Father.
Revelation 2:28 και δωσω αυτω τον αστερα τον πρωινον
Revelation 2:28 And I will give him the morning star.
Revelation 2:29 ο εχων ους ακουσατω τι το πνευμα λεγει ταις εκκλησιαις
Revelation 2:29 He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches.
Revelation 3:1 και τω αγγελω της εν σαρδεσιν εκκλησιας γραψον ταδε λεγει ο εχων τα πνευματα του θεου και τους επτα αστερας οιδα σου τα εργα οτι το ονομα εχεις οτι ζης και νεκρος ει
Revelation 3:1 And unto the angel of the church in Sardis write; These things saith he that hath the seven Spirits of God, and the seven stars; I know thy works, that thou hast a name that thou livest, and art dead.
Revelation 3:2 γινου γρηγορων και στηριξον τα λοιπα α μελλει αποθανειν ου γαρ ευρηκα σου τα εργα πεπληρωμενα ενωπιον του θεου
Revelation 3:2 Be watchful, and strengthen the things which remain, that are ready to die: for I have not found thy works perfect before God.
Revelation 3:3 μνημονευε ουν πως ειληφας και ηκουσας και τηρει και μετανοησον εαν ουν μη γρηγορησης ηξω επι σε ως κλεπτης και ου μη γνως ποιαν ωραν ηξω επι σε
Revelation 3:3 Remember therefore how thou hast received and heard, and hold fast, and repent. If therefore thou shalt not watch, I will come on thee as a thief, and thou shalt not know what hour I will come upon thee.
Revelation 3:4 εχεις ολιγα ονοματα και εν σαρδεσιν α ουκ εμολυναν τα ιματια αυτων και περιπατησουσιν μετ εμου εν λευκοις οτι αξιοι εισιν
Revelation 3:4 Thou hast a few names even in Sardis which have not defiled their garments; and they shall walk with me in white: for they are worthy.
Revelation 3:5 ο νικων ουτος περιβαλειται εν ιματιοις λευκοις και ου μη εξαλειψω το ονομα αυτου εκ της βιβλου της ζωης και εξομολογησομαι το ονομα αυτου ενωπιον του πατρος μου και ενωπιον των αγγελων αυτου
Revelation 3:5 He that overcometh, the same shall be clothed in white raiment; and I will not blot out his name out of the book of life, but I will confess his name before my Father, and before his angels.
Revelation 3:6 ο εχων ους ακουσατω τι το πνευμα λεγει ταις εκκλησιαις
Revelation 3:6 He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches.
Revelation 3:7 και τω αγγελω της εν φιλαδελφεια εκκλησιας γραψον ταδε λεγει ο αγιος ο αληθινος ο εχων την κλειδα του δαβιδ ο ανοιγων και ουδεις κλειει και κλειει και ουδεις ανοιγει
Revelation 3:7 And to the angel of the church in Philadelphia write; These things saith he that is holy, he that is true, he that hath the key of David, he that openeth, and no man shutteth; and shutteth, and no man openeth;
Revelation 3:8 οιδα σου τα εργα ιδου δεδωκα ενωπιον σου θυραν ανεωγμενην και ουδεις δυναται κλεισαι αυτην οτι μικραν εχεις δυναμιν και ετηρησας μου τον λογον και ουκ ηρνησω το ονομα μου
Revelation 3:8 I know thy works: behold, I have set before thee an open door, and no man can shut it: for thou hast a little strength, and hast kept my word, and hast not denied my name.
Revelation 3:9 ιδου διδωμι εκ της συναγωγης του σατανα των λεγοντων εαυτους ιουδαιους ειναι και ουκ εισιν αλλα ψευδονται ιδου ποιησω αυτους ινα ηξωσιν και προσκυνησωσιν ενωπιον των ποδων σου και γνωσιν οτι εγω ηγαπησα σε
Revelation 3:9 Behold, I will make them of the synagogue of Satan, which say they are Jews, and are not, but do lie; behold, I will make them to come and worship before thy feet, and to know that I have loved thee.
Revelation 3:10 οτι ετηρησας τον λογον της υπομονης μου καγω σε τηρησω εκ της ωρας του πειρασμου της μελλουσης ερχεσθαι επι της οικουμενης ολης πειρασαι τους κατοικουντας επι της γης
Revelation 3:10 Because thou hast kept the word of my patience, I also will keep thee from the hour of temptation, which shall come upon all the world, to try them that dwell upon the earth.
Revelation 3:11 ιδου ερχομαι ταχυ κρατει ο εχεις ινα μηδεις λαβη τον στεφανον σου
Revelation 3:11 Behold, I come quickly: hold that fast which thou hast, that no man take thy crown.
Revelation 3:12 ο νικων ποιησω αυτον στυλον εν τω ναω του θεου μου και εξω ου μη εξελθη ετι και γραψω επ αυτον το ονομα του θεου μου και το ονομα της πολεως του θεου μου της καινης ιερουσαλημ η καταβαινουσα εκ του ουρανου απο του θεου μου και το ονομα μου το καινον
Revelation 3:12 Him that overcometh will I make a pillar in the temple of my God, and he shall go no more out: and I will write upon him the name of my God, and the name of the city of my God, which is new Jerusalem, which cometh down out of heaven from my God: and I will write upon him my new name.
Revelation 3:13 ο εχων ους ακουσατω τι το πνευμα λεγει ταις εκκλησιαις
Revelation 3:13 He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches.
Revelation 3:14 και τω αγγελω της εκκλησιας λαοδικεων γραψον ταδε λεγει ο αμην ο μαρτυς ο πιστος και αληθινος η αρχη της κτισεως του θεου
Revelation 3:14 And unto the angel of the church of the Laodiceans write; These things saith the Amen, the faithful and true witness, the beginning of the creation of God;
Revelation 3:15 οιδα σου τα εργα οτι ουτε ψυχρος ει ουτε ζεστος οφελον ψυχρος ειης η ζεστος
Revelation 3:15 I know thy works, that thou art neither cold nor hot: I would thou wert cold or hot.
Revelation 3:16 ουτως οτι χλιαρος ει και ουτε ψυχρος ουτε ζεστος μελλω σε εμεσαι εκ του στοματος μου
Revelation 3:16 So then because thou art lukewarm, and neither cold nor hot, I will spue thee out of my mouth.
Revelation 3:17 οτι λεγεις οτι πλουσιος ειμι και πεπλουτηκα και ουδενος χρειαν εχω και ουκ οιδας οτι συ ει ο ταλαιπωρος και ελεεινος και πτωχος και τυφλος και γυμνος
Revelation 3:17 Because thou sayest, I am rich, and increased with goods, and have need of nothing; and knowest not that thou art wretched, and miserable, and poor, and blind, and naked:
Revelation 3:18 συμβουλευω σοι αγορασαι παρ εμου χρυσιον πεπυρωμενον εκ πυρος ινα πλουτησης και ιματια λευκα ινα περιβαλη και μη φανερωθη η αισχυνη της γυμνοτητος σου και κολλουριον εγχρισον τους οφθαλμους σου ινα βλεπης
Revelation 3:18 I counsel thee to buy of me gold tried in the fire, that thou mayest be rich; and white raiment, that thou mayest be clothed, and that the shame of thy nakedness do not appear; and anoint thine eyes with eyesalve, that thou mayest see.
Revelation 3:19 εγω οσους εαν φιλω ελεγχω και παιδευω ζηλωσον ουν και μετανοησον
Revelation 3:19 As many as I love, I rebuke and chasten: be zealous therefore, and repent.
Revelation 3:20 ιδου εστηκα επι την θυραν και κρουω εαν τις ακουση της φωνης μου και ανοιξη την θυραν εισελευσομαι προς αυτον και δειπνησω μετ αυτου και αυτος μετ εμου
Revelation 3:20 Behold, I stand at the door, and knock: if any man hear my voice, and open the door, I will come in to him, and will sup with him, and he with me.
Revelation 3:21 ο νικων δωσω αυτω καθισαι μετ εμου εν τω θρονω μου ως καγω ενικησα και εκαθισα μετα του πατρος μου εν τω θρονω αυτου
Revelation 3:21 To him that overcometh will I grant to sit with me in my throne, even as I also overcame, and am set down with my Father in his throne.
Revelation 3:22 ο εχων ους ακουσατω τι το πνευμα λεγει ταις εκκλησιαις
Revelation 3:22 He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches.
Revelation 4:1 μετα ταυτα ειδον και ιδου θυρα ηνεωγμενη εν τω ουρανω και η φωνη η πρωτη ην ηκουσα ως σαλπιγγος λαλουσης μετ εμου λεγουσα αναβα ωδε και δειξω σοι α δει γενεσθαι μετα ταυτα
Revelation 4:1 After this I looked, and, behold, a door was opened in heaven: and the first voice which I heard was as it were of a trumpet talking with me; which said, Come up hither, and I will shew thee things which must be hereafter.
Revelation 4:2 και ευθεως εγενομην εν πνευματι και ιδου θρονος εκειτο εν τω ουρανω και επι του θρονου καθημενος
Revelation 4:2 And immediately I was in the spirit: and, behold, a throne was set in heaven, and one sat on the throne.
Revelation 4:3 και ο καθημενος ην ομοιος ορασει λιθω ιασπιδι και σαρδινω και ιρις κυκλοθεν του θρονου ομοιος ορασει σμαραγδινω
Revelation 4:3 And he that sat was to look upon like a jasper and a sardine stone: and there was a rainbow round about the throne, in sight like unto an emerald.
Revelation 4:4 και κυκλοθεν του θρονου θρονοι εικοσι και τεσσαρες και επι τους θρονους ειδον τους εικοσι και τεσσαρας πρεσβυτερους καθημενους περιβεβλημενους εν ιματιοις λευκοις και εσχον επι τας κεφαλας αυτων στεφανους χρυσους
Revelation 4:4 And round about the throne were four and twenty seats: and upon the seats I saw four and twenty elders sitting, clothed in white raiment; and they had on their heads crowns of gold.
Revelation 4:5 και εκ του θρονου εκπορευονται αστραπαι και βρονται και φωναι και επτα λαμπαδες πυρος καιομεναι ενωπιον του θρονου αι εισιν τα επτα πνευματα του θεου
Revelation 4:5 And out of the throne proceeded lightnings and thunderings and voices: and there were seven lamps of fire burning before the throne, which are the seven Spirits of God.
Revelation 4:6 και ενωπιον του θρονου θαλασσα υαλινη ομοια κρυσταλλω και εν μεσω του θρονου και κυκλω του θρονου τεσσαρα ζωα γεμοντα οφθαλμων εμπροσθεν και οπισθεν
Revelation 4:6 And before the throne there was a sea of glass like unto crystal: and in the midst of the throne, and round about the throne, were four beasts full of eyes before and behind.
Revelation 4:7 και το ζωον το πρωτον ομοιον λεοντι και το δευτερον ζωον ομοιον μοσχω και το τριτον ζωον εχον το προσωπον ως ανθρωπος και το τεταρτον ζωον ομοιον αετω πετωμενω
Revelation 4:7 And the first beast was like a lion, and the second beast like a calf, and the third beast had a face as a man, and the fourth beast was like a flying eagle.
Revelation 4:8 και τεσσαρα ζωα εν καθ εαυτο ειχον ανα πτερυγας εξ κυκλοθεν και εσωθεν γεμοντα οφθαλμων και αναπαυσιν ουκ εχουσιν ημερας και νυκτος λεγοντα αγιος αγιος αγιος κυριος ο θεος ο παντοκρατωρ ο ην και ο ων και ο ερχομενος
Revelation 4:8 And the four beasts had each of them six wings about him; and they were full of eyes within: and they rest not day and night, saying, Holy, holy, holy, LORD God Almighty, which was, and is, and is to come.
Revelation 4:9 και οταν δωσουσιν τα ζωα δοξαν και τιμην και ευχαριστιαν τω καθημενω επι του θρονου τω ζωντι εις τους αιωνας των αιωνων
Revelation 4:9 And when those beasts give glory and honour and thanks to him that sat on the throne, who liveth for ever and ever,
Revelation 4:10 πεσουνται οι εικοσι και τεσσαρες πρεσβυτεροι ενωπιον του καθημενου επι του θρονου και προσκυνουσιν τω ζωντι εις τους αιωνας των αιωνων και βαλλουσιν τους στεφανους αυτων ενωπιον του θρονου λεγοντες
Revelation 4:10 The four and twenty elders fall down before him that sat on the throne, and worship him that liveth for ever and ever, and cast their crowns before the throne, saying,
Revelation 4:11 αξιος ει κυριε λαβειν την δοξαν και την τιμην και την δυναμιν οτι συ εκτισας τα παντα και δια το θελημα σου εισιν και εκτισθησαν
Revelation 4:11 Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honour and power: for thou hast created all things, and for thy pleasure they are and were created.
Revelation 5:1 και ειδον επι την δεξιαν του καθημενου επι του θρονου βιβλιον γεγραμμενον εσωθεν και οπισθεν κατεσφραγισμενον σφραγισιν επτα
Revelation 5:1 And I saw in the right hand of him that sat on the throne a book written within and on the backside, sealed with seven seals.
Revelation 5:2 και ειδον αγγελον ισχυρον κηρυσσοντα φωνη μεγαλη τις εστιν αξιος ανοιξαι το βιβλιον και λυσαι τας σφραγιδας αυτου
Revelation 5:2 And I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, Who is worthy to open the book, and to loose the seals thereof?
Revelation 5:3 και ουδεις ηδυνατο εν τω ουρανω ουδε επι της γης ουδε υποκατω της γης ανοιξαι το βιβλιον ουδε βλεπειν αυτο
Revelation 5:3 And no man in heaven, nor in earth, neither under the earth, was able to open the book, neither to look thereon.
Revelation 5:4 και εγω εκλαιον πολλα οτι ουδεις αξιος ευρεθη ανοιξαι και αναγνωναι το βιβλιον ουτε βλεπειν αυτο
Revelation 5:4 And I wept much, because no man was found worthy to open and to read the book, neither to look thereon.
Revelation 5:5 και εις εκ των πρεσβυτερων λεγει μοι μη κλαιε ιδου ενικησεν ο λεων ο ων εκ της φυλης ιουδα η ριζα δαβιδ ανοιξαι το βιβλιον και λυσαι τας επτα σφραγιδας αυτου
Revelation 5:5 And one of the elders saith unto me, Weep not: behold, the Lion of the tribe of Juda, the Root of David, hath prevailed to open the book, and to loose the seven seals thereof.
Revelation 5:6 και ειδον και ιδου εν μεσω του θρονου και των τεσσαρων ζωων και εν μεσω των πρεσβυτερων αρνιον εστηκος ως εσφαγμενον εχον κερατα επτα και οφθαλμους επτα οι εισιν τα επτα του θεου πνευματα τα απεσταλμενα εις πασαν την γην
Revelation 5:6 And I beheld, and, lo, in the midst of the throne and of the four beasts, and in the midst of the elders, stood a Lamb as it had been slain, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven Spirits of God sent forth into all the earth.
Revelation 5:7 και ηλθεν και ειληφεν το βιβλιον εκ της δεξιας του καθημενου επι του θρονου
Revelation 5:7 And he came and took the book out of the right hand of him that sat upon the throne.
Revelation 5:8 και οτε ελαβεν το βιβλιον τα τεσσαρα ζωα και οι εικοσιτεσσαρες πρεσβυτεροι επεσον ενωπιον του αρνιου εχοντες εκαστος κιθαρας και φιαλας χρυσας γεμουσας θυμιαματων αι εισιν αι προσευχαι των αγιων
Revelation 5:8 And when he had taken the book, the four beasts and four and twenty elders fell down before the Lamb, having every one of them harps, and golden vials full of odours, which are the prayers of saints.
Revelation 5:9 και αδουσιν ωδην καινην λεγοντες αξιος ει λαβειν το βιβλιον και ανοιξαι τας σφραγιδας αυτου οτι εσφαγης και ηγορασας τω θεω ημας εν τω αιματι σου εκ πασης φυλης και γλωσσης και λαου και εθνους
Revelation 5:9 And they sung a new song, saying, Thou art worthy to take the book, and to open the seals thereof: for thou wast slain, and hast redeemed us to God by thy blood out of every kindred, and tongue, and people, and nation;
Revelation 5:10 και εποιησας ημας τω θεω ημων βασιλεις και ιερεις και βασιλευσομεν επι της γης
Revelation 5:10 And hast made us unto our God kings and priests: and we shall reign on the earth.
Revelation 5:11 και ειδον και ηκουσα φωνην αγγελων πολλων κυκλοθεν του θρονου και των ζωων και των πρεσβυτερων και χιλιαδες χιλιαδων
Revelation 5:11 And I beheld, and I heard the voice of many angels round about the throne and the beasts and the elders: and the number of them was ten thousand times ten thousand, and thousands of thousands;
Revelation 5:12 λεγοντες φωνη μεγαλη αξιον εστιν το αρνιον το εσφαγμενον λαβειν την δυναμιν και πλουτον και σοφιαν και ισχυν και τιμην και δοξαν και ευλογιαν
Revelation 5:12 Saying with a loud voice, Worthy is the Lamb that was slain to receive power, and riches, and wisdom, and strength, and honour, and glory, and blessing.
Revelation 5:13 και παν κτισμα ο εστιν εν τω ουρανω και εν τη γη και υποκατω της γης και επι της θαλασσης α εστιν και τα εν αυτοις παντα ηκουσα λεγοντας τω καθημενω επι του θρονου και τω αρνιω η ευλογια και η τιμη και η δοξα και το κρατος εις τους αιωνας των αιωνων
Revelation 5:13 And every creature which is in heaven, and on the earth, and under the earth, and such as are in the sea, and all that are in them, heard I saying, Blessing, and honour, and glory, and power, be unto him that sitteth upon the throne, and unto the Lamb for ever and ever.
Revelation 5:14 και τα τεσσαρα ζωα ελεγον αμην και οι εικοσιτεσσαρες πρεσβυτεροι επεσαν και προσεκυνησαν ζωντι εις τους αιωνας των αιωνων
Revelation 5:14 And the four beasts said, Amen. And the four and twenty elders fell down and worshipped him that liveth for ever and ever.
Revelation 6:1 και ειδον οτε ηνοιξεν το αρνιον μιαν εκ των σφραγιδων και ηκουσα ενος εκ των τεσσαρων ζωων λεγοντος ως φωνης βροντης ερχου και βλεπε
Revelation 6:1 And I saw when the Lamb opened one of the seals, and I heard, as it were the noise of thunder, one of the four beasts saying, Come and see.
Revelation 6:2 και ειδον και ιδου ιππος λευκος και ο καθημενος επ αυτω εχων τοξον και εδοθη αυτω στεφανος και εξηλθεν νικων και ινα νικηση
Revelation 6:2 And I saw, and behold a white horse: and he that sat on him had a bow; and a crown was given unto him: and he went forth conquering, and to conquer.
Revelation 6:3 και οτε ηνοιξεν την δευτεραν σφραγιδα ηκουσα του δευτερου ζωου λεγοντος ερχου και βλεπε
Revelation 6:3 And when he had opened the second seal, I heard the second beast say, Come and see.
Revelation 6:4 και εξηλθεν αλλος ιππος πυρρος και τω καθημενω επ αυτω εδοθη αυτω λαβειν την ειρηνην απο της γης και ινα αλληλους σφαξωσιν και εδοθη αυτω μαχαιρα μεγαλη
Revelation 6:4 And there went out another horse that was red: and power was given to him that sat thereon to take peace from the earth, and that they should kill one another: and there was given unto him a great sword.
Revelation 6:5 και οτε ηνοιξεν την τριτην σφραγιδα ηκουσα του τριτου ζωου λεγοντος ερχου και βλεπε και ειδον και ιδου ιππος μελας και ο καθημενος επ αυτω εχων ζυγον εν τη χειρι αυτου
Revelation 6:5 And when he had opened the third seal, I heard the third beast say, Come and see. And I beheld, and lo a black horse; and he that sat on him had a pair of balances in his hand.
Revelation 6:6 και ηκουσα φωνην εν μεσω των τεσσαρων ζωων λεγουσαν χοινιξ σιτου δηναριου και τρεις χοινικες κριθης δηναριου και το ελαιον και τον οινον μη αδικησης
Revelation 6:6 And I heard a voice in the midst of the four beasts say, A measure of wheat for a penny, and three measures of barley for a penny; and see thou hurt not the oil and the wine.
Revelation 6:7 και οτε ηνοιξεν την σφραγιδα την τεταρτην ηκουσα φωνην του τεταρτου ζωου λεγουσαν ερχου και βλεπε
Revelation 6:7 And when he had opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth beast say, Come and see.
Revelation 6:8 και ειδον και ιδου ιππος χλωρος και ο καθημενος επανω αυτου ονομα αυτω ο θανατος και ο αδης ακολουθει μετ αυτου και εδοθη αυτοις εξουσια αποκτειναι επι το τεταρτον της γης εν ρομφαια και εν λιμω και εν θανατω και υπο των θηριων της γης
Revelation 6:8 And I looked, and behold a pale horse: and his name that sat on him was Death, and Hell followed with him. And power was given unto them over the fourth part of the earth, to kill with sword, and with hunger, and with death, and with the beasts of the earth.
Revelation 6:9 και οτε ηνοιξεν την πεμπτην σφραγιδα ειδον υποκατω του θυσιαστηριου τας ψυχας των εσφαγμενων δια τον λογον του θεου και δια την μαρτυριαν ην ειχον
Revelation 6:9 And when he had opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of them that were slain for the word of God, and for the testimony which they held:
Revelation 6:10 και εκραζον φωνη μεγαλη λεγοντες εως ποτε ο δεσποτης ο αγιος και ο αληθινος ου κρινεις και εκδικεις το αιμα ημων απο των κατοικουντων επι της γης
Revelation 6:10 And they cried with a loud voice, saying, How long, O Lord, holy and true, dost thou not judge and avenge our blood on them that dwell on the earth?
Revelation 6:11 και εδοθησαν εκαστοις στολαι λευκαι και ερρεθη αυτοις ινα αναπαυσωνται ετι χρονον μικρον εως ου πληρωσονται και οι συνδουλοι αυτων και οι αδελφοι αυτων οι μελλοντες αποκτεινεσθαι ως και αυτοι
Revelation 6:11 And white robes were given unto every one of them; and it was said unto them, that they should rest yet for a little season, until their fellowservants also and their brethren, that should be killed as they were, should be fulfilled.
Revelation 6:12 και ειδον οτε ηνοιξεν την σφραγιδα την εκτην και ιδου σεισμος μεγας εγενετο και ο ηλιος εγενετο μελας ως σακκος τριχινος και η σεληνη εγενετο ως αιμα
Revelation 6:12 And I beheld when he had opened the sixth seal, and, lo, there was a great earthquake; and the sun became black as sackcloth of hair, and the moon became as blood;
Revelation 6:13 και οι αστερες του ουρανου επεσαν εις την γην ως συκη βαλλει τους ολυνθους αυτης υπο μεγαλου ανεμου σειομενη
Revelation 6:13 And the stars of heaven fell unto the earth, even as a fig tree casteth her untimely figs, when she is shaken of a mighty wind.
Revelation 6:14 και ουρανος απεχωρισθη ως βιβλιον ειλισσομενον και παν ορος και νησος εκ των τοπων αυτων εκινηθησαν
Revelation 6:14 And the heaven departed as a scroll when it is rolled together; and every mountain and island were moved out of their places.
Revelation 6:15 και οι βασιλεις της γης και οι μεγιστανες και οι πλουσιοι και οι χιλιαρχοι και οι δυνατοι και πας δουλος και πας ελευθερος εκρυψαν εαυτους εις τα σπηλαια και εις τας πετρας των ορεων
Revelation 6:15 And the kings of the earth, and the great men, and the rich men, and the chief captains, and the mighty men, and every bondman, and every free man, hid themselves in the dens and in the rocks of the mountains;
Revelation 6:16 και λεγουσιν τοις ορεσιν και ταις πετραις πεσετε εφ ημας και κρυψατε ημας απο προσωπου του καθημενου επι του θρονου και απο της οργης του αρνιου
Revelation 6:16 And said to the mountains and rocks, Fall on us, and hide us from the face of him that sitteth on the throne, and from the wrath of the Lamb:
Revelation 6:17 οτι ηλθεν η ημερα η μεγαλη της οργης αυτου και τις δυναται σταθηναι
Revelation 6:17 For the great day of his wrath is come; and who shall be able to stand?
Revelation 7:1 και μετα ταυτα ειδον τεσσαρας αγγελους εστωτας επι τας τεσσαρας γωνιας της γης κρατουντας τους τεσσαρας ανεμους της γης ινα μη πνεη ανεμος επι της γης μητε επι της θαλασσης μητε επι παν δενδρον
Revelation 7:1 And after these things I saw four angels standing on the four corners of the earth, holding the four winds of the earth, that the wind should not blow on the earth, nor on the sea, nor on any tree.
Revelation 7:2 και ειδον αλλον αγγελον αναβαντα απο ανατολης ηλιου εχοντα σφραγιδα θεου ζωντος και εκραξεν φωνη μεγαλη τοις τεσσαρσιν αγγελοις οις εδοθη αυτοις αδικησαι την γην και την θαλασσαν
Revelation 7:2 And I saw another angel ascending from the east, having the seal of the living God: and he cried with a loud voice to the four angels, to whom it was given to hurt the earth and the sea,
Revelation 7:3 λεγων μη αδικησητε την γην μητε την θαλασσαν μητε τα δενδρα αχρις ου σφραγιζωμεν τους δουλους του θεου ημων επι των μετωπων αυτων
Revelation 7:3 Saying, Hurt not the earth, neither the sea, nor the trees, till we have sealed the servants of our God in their foreheads.
Revelation 7:4 και ηκουσα τον αριθμον των εσφραγισμενων ρμδ χιλιαδες εσφραγισμενοι εκ πασης φυλης υιων ισραηλ
Revelation 7:4 And I heard the number of them which were sealed: and there were sealed an hundred and forty and four thousand of all the tribes of the children of Israel.
Revelation 7:5 εκ φυλης ιουδα ιβ χιλιαδες εσφραγισμενοι εκ φυλης ρουβην ιβ χιλιαδες εσφραγισμενοι εκ φυλης γαδ ιβ χιλιαδες εσφραγισμενοι
Revelation 7:5 Of the tribe of Juda were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Reuben were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Gad were sealed twelve thousand.
Revelation 7:6 εκ φυλης ασηρ ιβ χιλιαδες εσφραγισμενοι εκ φυλης νεφθαλειμ ιβ χιλιαδες εσφραγισμενοι εκ φυλης μανασση ιβ χιλιαδες εσφραγισμενοι
Revelation 7:6 Of the tribe of Aser were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Nephthalim were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Manasses were sealed twelve thousand.
Revelation 7:7 εκ φυλης συμεων ιβ χιλιαδες εσφραγισμενοι εκ φυλης λευι ιβ χιλιαδες εσφραγισμενοι εκ φυλης ισαχαρ ιβ χιλιαδες εσφραγισμενοι
Revelation 7:7 Of the tribe of Simeon were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Levi were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Issachar were sealed twelve thousand.
Revelation 7:8 εκ φυλης ζαβουλων ιβ χιλιαδες εσφραγισμενοι εκ φυλης ιωσηφ ιβ χιλιαδες εσφραγισμενοι εκ φυλης βενιαμιν ιβ χιλιαδες εσφραγισμενοι
Revelation 7:8 Of the tribe of Zabulon were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Joseph were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Benjamin were sealed twelve thousand.
Revelation 7:9 μετα ταυτα ειδον και ιδου οχλος πολυς ον αριθμησαι αυτον ουδεις ηδυνατο εκ παντος εθνους και φυλων και λαων και γλωσσων εστωτες ενωπιον του θρονου και ενωπιον του αρνιου περιβεβλημενοι στολας λευκας και φοινικες εν ταις χερσιν αυτων
Revelation 7:9 After this I beheld, and, lo, a great multitude, which no man could number, of all nations, and kindreds, and people, and tongues, stood before the throne, and before the Lamb, clothed with white robes, and palms in their hands;
Revelation 7:10 και κραζοντες φωνη μεγαλη λεγοντες η σωτηρια τω καθημενω επι του θρονου του θεου ημων και τω αρνιω
Revelation 7:10 And cried with a loud voice, saying, Salvation to our God which sitteth upon the throne, and unto the Lamb.
Revelation 7:11 και παντες οι αγγελοι εστηκεσαν κυκλω του θρονου και των πρεσβυτερων και των τεσσαρων ζωων και επεσον ενωπιον του θρονου επι προσωπον αυτων και προσεκυνησαν τω θεω
Revelation 7:11 And all the angels stood round about the throne, and about the elders and the four beasts, and fell before the throne on their faces, and worshipped God,
Revelation 7:12 λεγοντες αμην η ευλογια και η δοξα και η σοφια και η ευχαριστια και η τιμη και η δυναμις και η ισχυς τω θεω ημων εις τους αιωνας των αιωνων αμην
Revelation 7:12 Saying, Amen: Blessing, and glory, and wisdom, and thanksgiving, and honour, and power, and might, be unto our God for ever and ever. Amen.
Revelation 7:13 και απεκριθη εις εκ των πρεσβυτερων λεγων μοι ουτοι οι περιβεβλημενοι τας στολας τας λευκας τινες εισιν και ποθεν ηλθον
Revelation 7:13 And one of the elders answered, saying unto me, What are these which are arrayed in white robes? and whence came they?
Revelation 7:14 και ειρηκα αυτω κυριε συ οιδας και ειπεν μοι ουτοι εισιν οι ερχομενοι εκ της θλιψεως της μεγαλης και επλυναν τας στολας αυτων και ελευκαναν στολας αυτων εν τω αιματι του αρνιου
Revelation 7:14 And I said unto him, Sir, thou knowest. And he said to me, These are they which came out of great tribulation, and have washed their robes, and made them white in the blood of the Lamb.
Revelation 7:15 δια τουτο εισιν ενωπιον του θρονου του θεου και λατρευουσιν αυτω ημερας και νυκτος εν τω ναω αυτου και ο καθημενος επι του θρονου σκηνωσει επ αυτους
Revelation 7:15 Therefore are they before the throne of God, and serve him day and night in his temple: and he that sitteth on the throne shall dwell among them.
Revelation 7:16 ου πεινασουσιν ετι ουδε διψησουσιν ετι ουδε μη πεση επ αυτους ο ηλιος ουδε παν καυμα
Revelation 7:16 They shall hunger no more, neither thirst any more; neither shall the sun light on them, nor any heat.
Revelation 7:17 οτι το αρνιον το αναμεσον του θρονου ποιμανει αυτους και οδηγησει αυτους επι ζωσας πηγας υδατων και εξαλειψει ο θεος παν δακρυον απο των οφθαλμων αυτων
Revelation 7:17 For the Lamb which is in the midst of the throne shall feed them, and shall lead them unto living fountains of waters: and God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes.
Revelation 8:1 και οτε ηνοιξεν την σφραγιδα την εβδομην εγενετο σιγη εν τω ουρανω ως ημιωριον
Revelation 8:1 And when he had opened the seventh seal, there was silence in heaven about the space of half an hour.
Revelation 8:2 και ειδον τους επτα αγγελους οι ενωπιον του θεου εστηκασιν και εδοθησαν αυτοις επτα σαλπιγγες
Revelation 8:2 And I saw the seven angels which stood before God; and to them were given seven trumpets.
Revelation 8:3 και αλλος αγγελος ηλθεν και εσταθη επι το θυσιαστηριον εχων λιβανωτον χρυσουν και εδοθη αυτω θυμιαματα πολλα ινα δωση ταις προσευχαις των αγιων παντων επι το θυσιαστηριον το χρυσουν το ενωπιον του θρονου
Revelation 8:3 And another angel came and stood at the altar, having a golden censer; and there was given unto him much incense, that he should offer it with the prayers of all saints upon the golden altar which was before the throne.
Revelation 8:4 και ανεβη ο καπνος των θυμιαματων ταις προσευχαις των αγιων εκ χειρος του αγγελου ενωπιον του θεου
Revelation 8:4 And the smoke of the incense, which came with the prayers of the saints, ascended up before God out of the angel's hand.
Revelation 8:5 και ειληφεν ο αγγελος το λιβανωτον και εγεμισεν αυτο εκ του πυρος του θυσιαστηριου και εβαλεν εις την γην και εγενοντο φωναι και βρονται και αστραπαι και σεισμος
Revelation 8:5 And the angel took the censer, and filled it with fire of the altar, and cast it into the earth: and there were voices, and thunderings, and lightnings, and an earthquake.
Revelation 8:6 και οι επτα αγγελοι εχοντες τας επτα σαλπιγγας ητοιμασαν εαυτους ινα σαλπισωσιν
Revelation 8:6 And the seven angels which had the seven trumpets prepared themselves to sound.
Revelation 8:7 και ο πρωτος αγγελος εσαλπισεν και εγενετο χαλαζα και πυρ μεμιγμενα αιματι και εβληθη εις την γην και το τριτον των δενδρων κατεκαη και πας χορτος χλωρος κατεκαη
Revelation 8:7 The first angel sounded, and there followed hail and fire mingled with blood, and they were cast upon the earth: and the third part of trees was burnt up, and all green grass was burnt up.
Revelation 8:8 και ο δευτερος αγγελος εσαλπισεν και ως ορος μεγα πυρι καιομενον εβληθη εις την θαλασσαν και εγενετο το τριτον της θαλασσης αιμα
Revelation 8:8 And the second angel sounded, and as it were a great mountain burning with fire was cast into the sea: and the third part of the sea became blood;
Revelation 8:9 και απεθανεν το τριτον των κτισματων των εν τη θαλασση τα εχοντα ψυχας και το τριτον των πλοιων διεφθαρη
Revelation 8:9 And the third part of the creatures which were in the sea, and had life, died; and the third part of the ships were destroyed.
Revelation 8:10 και ο τριτος αγγελος εσαλπισεν και επεσεν εκ του ουρανου αστηρ μεγας καιομενος ως λαμπας και επεσεν επι το τριτον των ποταμων και επι τας πηγας υδατων
Revelation 8:10 And the third angel sounded, and there fell a great star from heaven, burning as it were a lamp, and it fell upon the third part of the rivers, and upon the fountains of waters;
Revelation 8:11 και το ονομα του αστερος λεγεται αψινθος και γινεται το τριτον εις αψινθον και πολλοι ανθρωπων απεθανον εκ των υδατων οτι επικρανθησαν
Revelation 8:11 And the name of the star is called Wormwood: and the third part of the waters became wormwood; and many men died of the waters, because they were made bitter.
Revelation 8:12 και ο τεταρτος αγγελος εσαλπισεν και επληγη το τριτον του ηλιου και το τριτον της σεληνης και το τριτον των αστερων ινα σκοτισθη το τριτον αυτων και η ημερα μη φαινη το τριτον αυτης και η νυξ ομοιως
Revelation 8:12 And the fourth angel sounded, and the third part of the sun was smitten, and the third part of the moon, and the third part of the stars; so as the third part of them was darkened, and the day shone not for a third part of it, and the night likewise.
Revelation 8:13 και ειδον και ηκουσα ενος αγγελου πετωμενου εν μεσουρανηματι λεγοντος φωνη μεγαλη ουαι ουαι ουαι τοις κατοικουσιν επι της γης εκ των λοιπων φωνων της σαλπιγγος των τριων αγγελων των μελλοντων σαλπιζειν
Revelation 8:13 And I beheld, and heard an angel flying through the midst of heaven, saying with a loud voice, Woe, woe, woe, to the inhabiters of the earth by reason of the other voices of the trumpet of the three angels, which are yet to sound!
Revelation 9:1 και ο πεμπτος αγγελος εσαλπισεν και ειδον αστερα εκ του ουρανου πεπτωκοτα εις την γην και εδοθη αυτω η κλεις του φρεατος της αβυσσου
Revelation 9:1 And the fifth angel sounded, and I saw a star fall from heaven unto the earth: and to him was given the key of the bottomless pit.
Revelation 9:2 και ηνοιξεν το φρεαρ της αβυσσου και ανεβη καπνος εκ του φρεατος ως καπνος καμινου μεγαλης και εσκοτισθη ο ηλιος και ο αηρ εκ του καπνου του φρεατος
Revelation 9:2 And he opened the bottomless pit; and there arose a smoke out of the pit, as the smoke of a great furnace; and the sun and the air were darkened by reason of the smoke of the pit.
Revelation 9:3 και εκ του καπνου εξηλθον ακριδες εις την γην και εδοθη αυταις εξουσια ως εχουσιν εξουσιαν οι σκορπιοι της γης
Revelation 9:3 And there came out of the smoke locusts upon the earth: and unto them was given power, as the scorpions of the earth have power.
Revelation 9:4 και ερρεθη αυταις ινα μη αδικησωσιν τον χορτον της γης ουδε παν χλωρον ουδε παν δενδρον ει μη τους ανθρωπους μονους οιτινες ουκ εχουσιν την σφραγιδα του θεου επι των μετωπων αυτων
Revelation 9:4 And it was commanded them that they should not hurt the grass of the earth, neither any green thing, neither any tree; but only those men which have not the seal of God in their foreheads.
Revelation 9:5 και εδοθη αυταις ινα μη αποκτεινωσιν αυτους αλλ ινα βασανισθωσιν μηνας πεντε και ο βασανισμος αυτων ως βασανισμος σκορπιου οταν παιση ανθρωπον
Revelation 9:5 And to them it was given that they should not kill them, but that they should be tormented five months: and their torment was as the torment of a scorpion, when he striketh a man.
Revelation 9:6 και εν ταις ημεραις εκειναις ζητησουσιν οι ανθρωποι τον θανατον και ουχ ευρησουσιν αυτον και επιθυμησουσιν αποθανειν και φευξεται ο θανατος απ αυτων
Revelation 9:6 And in those days shall men seek death, and shall not find it; and shall desire to die, and death shall flee from them.
Revelation 9:7 και τα ομοιωματα των ακριδων ομοια ιπποις ητοιμασμενοις εις πολεμον και επι τας κεφαλας αυτων ως στεφανοι ομοιοι χρυσω και τα προσωπα αυτων ως προσωπα ανθρωπων
Revelation 9:7 And the shapes of the locusts were like unto horses prepared unto battle; and on their heads were as it were crowns like gold, and their faces were as the faces of men.
Revelation 9:8 και ειχον τριχας ως τριχας γυναικων και οι οδοντες αυτων ως λεοντων ησαν
Revelation 9:8 And they had hair as the hair of women, and their teeth were as the teeth of lions.
Revelation 9:9 και ειχον θωρακας ως θωρακας σιδηρους και η φωνη των πτερυγων αυτων ως φωνη αρματων ιππων πολλων τρεχοντων εις πολεμον
Revelation 9:9 And they had breastplates, as it were breastplates of iron; and the sound of their wings was as the sound of chariots of many horses running to battle.
Revelation 9:10 και εχουσιν ουρας ομοιας σκορπιοις και κεντρα ην εν ταις ουραις αυτων και η εξουσια αυτων αδικησαι τους ανθρωπους μηνας πεντε
Revelation 9:10 And they had tails like unto scorpions, and there were stings in their tails: and their power was to hurt men five months.
Revelation 9:11 και εχουσιν εφ αυτων βασιλεα τον αγγελον της αβυσσου ονομα αυτω εβραιστι αβαδδων και εν τη ελληνικη ονομα εχει απολλυων
Revelation 9:11 And they had a king over them, which is the angel of the bottomless pit, whose name in the Hebrew tongue is Abaddon, but in the Greek tongue hath his name Apollyon.
Revelation 9:12 η ουαι η μια απηλθεν ιδου ερχονται ετι δυο ουαι μετα ταυτα
Revelation 9:12 One woe is past; and, behold, there come two woes more hereafter.
Revelation 9:13 και ο εκτος αγγελος εσαλπισεν και ηκουσα φωνην μιαν εκ των τεσσαρων κερατων του θυσιαστηριου του χρυσου του ενωπιον του θεου
Revelation 9:13 And the sixth angel sounded, and I heard a voice from the four horns of the golden altar which is before God,
Revelation 9:14 λεγουσαν τω εκτω αγγελω ος ειχε την σαλπιγγα λυσον τους τεσσαρας αγγελους τους δεδεμενους επι τω ποταμω τω μεγαλω ευφρατη
Revelation 9:14 Saying to the sixth angel which had the trumpet, Loose the four angels which are bound in the great river Euphrates.
Revelation 9:15 και ελυθησαν οι τεσσαρες αγγελοι οι ητοιμασμενοι εις την ωραν και ημεραν και μηνα και ενιαυτον ινα αποκτεινωσιν το τριτον των ανθρωπων
Revelation 9:15 And the four angels were loosed, which were prepared for an hour, and a day, and a month, and a year, for to slay the third part of men.
Revelation 9:16 και ο αριθμος στρατευματων του ιππικου δυο μυριαδες μυριαδων και ηκουσα τον αριθμον αυτων
Revelation 9:16 And the number of the army of the horsemen were two hundred thousand thousand: and I heard the number of them.
Revelation 9:17 και ουτως ειδον τους ιππους εν τη ορασει και τους καθημενους επ αυτων εχοντας θωρακας πυρινους και υακινθινους και θειωδεις και αι κεφαλαι των ιππων ως κεφαλαι λεοντων και εκ των στοματων αυτων εκπορευεται πυρ και καπνος και θειον
Revelation 9:17 And thus I saw the horses in the vision, and them that sat on them, having breastplates of fire, and of jacinth, and brimstone: and the heads of the horses were as the heads of lions; and out of their mouths issued fire and smoke and brimstone.
Revelation 9:18 υπο των τριων τουτων απεκτανθησαν το τριτον των ανθρωπων εκ του πυρος και εκ του καπνου και εκ του θειου του εκπορευομενου εκ των στοματων αυτων
Revelation 9:18 By these three was the third part of men killed, by the fire, and by the smoke, and by the brimstone, which issued out of their mouths.
Revelation 9:19 αι γαρ εξουσιαι αυτων εν τω στοματι αυτων εισιν αι γαρ ουραι αυτων ομοιαι οφεσιν εχουσαι κεφαλας και εν αυταις αδικουσιν
Revelation 9:19 For their power is in their mouth, and in their tails: for their tails were like unto serpents, and had heads, and with them they do hurt.
Revelation 9:20 και οι λοιποι των ανθρωπων οι ουκ απεκτανθησαν εν ταις πληγαις ταυταις ουτε μετενοησαν εκ των εργων των χειρων αυτων ινα μη προσκυνησωσιν τα δαιμονια και ειδωλα τα χρυσα και τα αργυρα και τα χαλκα και τα λιθινα και τα ξυλινα α ουτε βλεπειν δυναται ουτε ακουειν ουτε περιπατειν
Revelation 9:20 And the rest of the men which were not killed by these plagues yet repented not of the works of their hands, that they should not worship devils, and idols of gold, and silver, and brass, and stone, and of wood: which neither can see, nor hear, nor walk:
Revelation 9:21 και ου μετενοησαν εκ των φονων αυτων ουτε εκ των φαρμακειων αυτων ουτε εκ της πορνειας αυτων ουτε εκ των κλεμματων αυτων
Revelation 9:21 Neither repented they of their murders, nor of their sorceries, nor of their fornication, nor of their thefts.
Revelation 10:1 και ειδον αλλον αγγελον ισχυρον καταβαινοντα εκ του ουρανου περιβεβλημενον νεφελην και ιρις επι της κεφαλης και το προσωπον αυτου ως ο ηλιος και οι ποδες αυτου ως στυλοι πυρος
Revelation 10:1 And I saw another mighty angel come down from heaven, clothed with a cloud: and a rainbow was upon his head, and his face was as it were the sun, and his feet as pillars of fire:
Revelation 10:2 και ειχεν εν τη χειρι αυτου βιβλαριδιον ανεωγμενον και εθηκεν τον ποδα αυτου τον δεξιον επι την θαλασσαν τον δε ευωνυμον επι την γην
Revelation 10:2 And he had in his hand a little book open: and he set his right foot upon the sea, and his left foot on the earth,
Revelation 10:3 και εκραξεν φωνη μεγαλη ωσπερ λεων μυκαται και οτε εκραξεν ελαλησαν αι επτα βρονται τας εαυτων φωνας
Revelation 10:3 And cried with a loud voice, as when a lion roareth: and when he had cried, seven thunders uttered their voices.
Revelation 10:4 και οτε ελαλησαν αι επτα βρονται τας φωνας εαυτων εμελλον γραφειν και ηκουσα φωνην εκ του ουρανου λεγουσαν μοι σφραγισον α ελαλησαν αι επτα βρονται και μη ταυτα γραψης
Revelation 10:4 And when the seven thunders had uttered their voices, I was about to write: and I heard a voice from heaven saying unto me, Seal up those things which the seven thunders uttered, and write them not.
Revelation 10:5 και ο αγγελος ον ειδον εστωτα επι της θαλασσης και επι της γης ηρεν την χειρα αυτου εις τον ουρανον
Revelation 10:5 And the angel which I saw stand upon the sea and upon the earth lifted up his hand to heaven,
Revelation 10:6 και ωμοσεν εν τω ζωντι εις τους αιωνας των αιωνων ος εκτισεν τον ουρανον και τα εν αυτω και την γην και τα εν αυτη και την θαλασσαν και τα εν αυτη οτι χρονος ουκ εσται ετι
Revelation 10:6 And sware by him that liveth for ever and ever, who created heaven, and the things that therein are, and the earth, and the things that therein are, and the sea, and the things which are therein, that there should be time no longer:
Revelation 10:7 αλλα εν ταις ημεραις της φωνης του εβδομου αγγελου οταν μελλη σαλπιζειν και τελεσθη το μυστηριον του θεου ως ευηγγελισεν τοις εαυτου δουλοις τοις προφηταις
Revelation 10:7 But in the days of the voice of the seventh angel, when he shall begin to sound, the mystery of God should be finished, as he hath declared to his servants the prophets.
Revelation 10:8 και η φωνη ην ηκουσα εκ του ουρανου παλιν λαλουσα μετ εμου και λεγουσα υπαγε λαβε το βιβλαριδιον το ηνεωγμενον εν τη χειρι αγγελου του εστωτος επι της θαλασσης και επι της γης
Revelation 10:8 And the voice which I heard from heaven spake unto me again, and said, Go and take the little book which is open in the hand of the angel which standeth upon the sea and upon the earth.
Revelation 10:9 και απηλθον προς τον αγγελον λεγων αυτω δος μοι το βιβλαριδιον και λεγει μοι λαβε και καταφαγε αυτο και πικρανει σου την κοιλιαν αλλ εν τω στοματι σου εσται γλυκυ ως μελι
Revelation 10:9 And I went unto the angel, and said unto him, Give me the little book. And he said unto me, Take it, and eat it up; and it shall make thy belly bitter, but it shall be in thy mouth sweet as honey.
Revelation 10:10 και ελαβον το βιβλαριδιον εκ της χειρος του αγγελου και κατεφαγον αυτο και ην εν τω στοματι μου ως μελι γλυκυ και οτε εφαγον αυτο επικρανθη η κοιλια μου
Revelation 10:10 And I took the little book out of the angel's hand, and ate it up; and it was in my mouth sweet as honey: and as soon as I had eaten it, my belly was bitter.
Revelation 10:11 και λεγει μοι δει σε παλιν προφητευσαι επι λαοις και εθνεσιν και γλωσσαις και βασιλευσιν πολλοις
Revelation 10:11 And he said unto me, Thou must prophesy again before many peoples, and nations, and tongues, and kings.
Revelation 11:1 και εδοθη μοι καλαμος ομοιος ραβδω λεγων εγειραι και μετρησον τον ναον του θεου και το θυσιαστηριον και τους προσκυνουντας εν αυτω
Revelation 11:1 And there was given me a reed like unto a rod: and the angel stood, saying, Rise, and measure the temple of God, and the altar, and them that worship therein.
Revelation 11:2 και την αυλην την εσωθεν του ναου εκβαλε εξω και μη αυτην μετρησης οτι εδοθη τοις εθνεσιν και την πολιν την αγιαν πατησουσιν μηνας τεσσαρακοντα δυο
Revelation 11:2 But the court which is without the temple leave out, and measure it not; for it is given unto the Gentiles: and the holy city shall they tread under foot forty and two months.
Revelation 11:3 και δωσω τοις δυσιν μαρτυσιν μου και προφητευσουσιν ημερας χιλιας διακοσιας εξηκοντα περιβεβλημενοι σακκους
Revelation 11:3 And I will give power unto my two witnesses, and they shall prophesy a thousand two hundred and threescore days, clothed in sackcloth.
Revelation 11:4 ουτοι εισιν αι δυο ελαιαι και δυο λυχνιαι αι ενωπιον του θεου της γης εστωσαι
Revelation 11:4 These are the two olive trees, and the two candlesticks standing before the God of the earth.
Revelation 11:5 και ει τις αυτους θελη αδικησαι πυρ εκπορευεται εκ του στοματος αυτων και κατεσθιει τους εχθρους αυτων και ει τις αυτους θελη αδικησαι ουτως δει αυτον αποκτανθηναι
Revelation 11:5 And if any man will hurt them, fire proceedeth out of their mouth, and devoureth their enemies: and if any man will hurt them, he must in this manner be killed.
Revelation 11:6 ουτοι εχουσιν εξουσιαν κλεισαι τον ουρανον ινα μη βρεχη υετος εν ημεραις αυτων της προφητειας και εξουσιαν εχουσιν επι των υδατων στρεφειν αυτα εις αιμα και παταξαι την γην παση πληγη οσακις εαν θελησωσιν
Revelation 11:6 These have power to shut heaven, that it rain not in the days of their prophecy: and have power over waters to turn them to blood, and to smite the earth with all plagues, as often as they will.
Revelation 11:7 και οταν τελεσωσιν την μαρτυριαν αυτων το θηριον το αναβαινον εκ της αβυσσου ποιησει πολεμον μετ αυτων και νικησει αυτους και αποκτενει αυτους
Revelation 11:7 And when they shall have finished their testimony, the beast that ascendeth out of the bottomless pit shall make war against them, and shall overcome them, and kill them.
Revelation 11:8 και τα πτωματα αυτων επι της πλατειας πολεως της μεγαλης ητις καλειται πνευματικως σοδομα και αιγυπτος οπου και ο κυριος ημων εσταυρωθη
Revelation 11:8 And their dead bodies shall lie in the street of the great city, which spiritually is called Sodom and Egypt, where also our Lord was crucified.
Revelation 11:9 και βλεψουσιν εκ των λαων και φυλων και γλωσσων και εθνων τα πτωματα αυτων ημερας τρεις και ημισυ και τα πτωματα αυτων ουκ αφησουσιν τεθηναι εις μνηματα
Revelation 11:9 And they of the people and kindreds and tongues and nations shall see their dead bodies three days and an half, and shall not suffer their dead bodies to be put in graves.
Revelation 11:10 και οι κατοικουντες επι της γης χαρουσιν επ αυτοις και ευφρανθησονται και δωρα πεμψουσιν αλληλοις οτι ουτοι οι δυο προφηται εβασανισαν τους κατοικουντας επι της γης
Revelation 11:10 And they that dwell upon the earth shall rejoice over them, and make merry, and shall send gifts one to another; because these two prophets tormented them that dwelt on the earth.
Revelation 11:11 και μετα τας τρεις ημερας και ημισυ πνευμα ζωης εκ του θεου εισηλθεν επ αυτους και εστησαν επι τους ποδας αυτων και φοβος μεγας επεσεν επι τους θεωρουντας αυτους
Revelation 11:11 And after three days and an half the spirit of life from God entered into them, and they stood upon their feet; and great fear fell upon them which saw them.
Revelation 11:12 και ηκουσαν φωνην μεγαλην εκ του ουρανου λεγουσαν αυτοις αναβητε ωδε και ανεβησαν εις τον ουρανον εν τη νεφελη και εθεωρησαν αυτους οι εχθροι αυτων
Revelation 11:12 And they heard a great voice from heaven saying unto them, Come up hither. And they ascended up to heaven in a cloud; and their enemies beheld them.
Revelation 11:13 και εν εκεινη τη ωρα εγενετο σεισμος μεγας και το δεκατον της πολεως επεσεν και απεκτανθησαν εν τω σεισμω ονοματα ανθρωπων χιλιαδες επτα και οι λοιποι εμφοβοι εγενοντο και εδωκαν δοξαν τω θεω του ουρανου
Revelation 11:13 And the same hour was there a great earthquake, and the tenth part of the city fell, and in the earthquake were slain of men seven thousand: and the remnant were affrighted, and gave glory to the God of heaven.
Revelation 11:14 η ουαι η δευτερα απηλθεν ιδου η ουαι η τριτη ερχεται ταχυ
Revelation 11:14 The second woe is past; and, behold, the third woe cometh quickly.
Revelation 11:15 και ο εβδομος αγγελος εσαλπισεν και εγενοντο φωναι μεγαλαι εν τω ουρανω λεγουσαι εγενοντο αι βασιλειαι του κοσμου του κυριου ημων και του χριστου αυτου και βασιλευσει εις τους αιωνας των αιωνων
Revelation 11:15 And the seventh angel sounded; and there were great voices in heaven, saying, The kingdoms of this world are become the kingdoms of our Lord, and of his Christ; and he shall reign for ever and ever.
Revelation 11:16 και οι εικοσι και τεσσαρες πρεσβυτεροι οι ενωπιον του θεου καθημενοι επι τους θρονους αυτων επεσαν επι τα προσωπα αυτων και προσεκυνησαν τω θεω
Revelation 11:16 And the four and twenty elders, which sat before God on their seats, fell upon their faces, and worshipped God,
Revelation 11:17 λεγοντες ευχαριστουμεν σοι κυριε ο θεος ο παντοκρατωρ ο ων και ο ην και ο ερχομενος οτι ειληφας την δυναμιν σου την μεγαλην και εβασιλευσας
Revelation 11:17 Saying, We give thee thanks, O LORD God Almighty, which art, and wast, and art to come; because thou hast taken to thee thy great power, and hast reigned.
Revelation 11:18 και τα εθνη ωργισθησαν και ηλθεν η οργη σου και ο καιρος των νεκρων κριθηναι και δουναι τον μισθον τοις δουλοις σου τοις προφηταις και τοις αγιοις και τοις φοβουμενοις το ονομα σου τοις μικροις και τοις μεγαλοις και διαφθειραι τους διαφθειροντας την γην
Revelation 11:18 And the nations were angry, and thy wrath is come, and the time of the dead, that they should be judged, and that thou shouldest give reward unto thy servants the prophets, and to the saints, and them that fear thy name, small and great; and shouldest destroy them which destroy the earth.
Revelation 11:19 και ηνοιγη ο ναος του θεου εν τω ουρανω και ωφθη η κιβωτος της διαθηκης αυτου εν τω ναω αυτου και εγενοντο αστραπαι και φωναι και βρονται και σεισμος και χαλαζα μεγαλη
Revelation 11:19 And the temple of God was opened in heaven, and there was seen in his temple the ark of his testament: and there were lightnings, and voices, and thunderings, and an earthquake, and great hail.
Revelation 12:1 και σημειον μεγα ωφθη εν τω ουρανω γυνη περιβεβλημενη τον ηλιον και η σεληνη υποκατω των ποδων αυτης και επι της κεφαλης αυτης στεφανος αστερων δωδεκα
Revelation 12:1 And there appeared a great wonder in heaven; a woman clothed with the sun, and the moon under her feet, and upon her head a crown of twelve stars:
Revelation 12:2 και εν γαστρι εχουσα κραζει ωδινουσα και βασανιζομενη τεκειν
Revelation 12:2 And she being with child cried, travailing in birth, and pained to be delivered.
Revelation 12:3 και ωφθη αλλο σημειον εν τω ουρανω και ιδου δρακων μεγας πυρρος εχων κεφαλας επτα και κερατα δεκα και επι τας κεφαλας αυτου διαδηματα επτα
Revelation 12:3 And there appeared another wonder in heaven; and behold a great red dragon, having seven heads and ten horns, and seven crowns upon his heads.
Revelation 12:4 και η ουρα αυτου συρει το τριτον των αστερων του ουρανου και εβαλεν αυτους εις την γην και ο δρακων εστηκεν ενωπιον της γυναικος της μελλουσης τεκειν ινα οταν τεκη το τεκνον αυτης καταφαγη
Revelation 12:4 And his tail drew the third part of the stars of heaven, and did cast them to the earth: and the dragon stood before the woman which was ready to be delivered, for to devour her child as soon as it was born.
Revelation 12:5 και ετεκεν υιον αρρενα ος μελλει ποιμαινειν παντα τα εθνη εν ραβδω σιδηρα και ηρπασθη το τεκνον αυτης προς τον θεον και τον θρονον αυτου
Revelation 12:5 And she brought forth a man child, who was to rule all nations with a rod of iron: and her child was caught up unto God, and to his throne.
Revelation 12:6 και η γυνη εφυγεν εις την ερημον οπου εχει τοπον ητοιμασμενον απο του θεου ινα εκει τρεφωσιν αυτην ημερας χιλιας διακοσιας εξηκοντα
Revelation 12:6 And the woman fled into the wilderness, where she hath a place prepared of God, that they should feed her there a thousand two hundred and threescore days.
Revelation 12:7 και εγενετο πολεμος εν τω ουρανω ο μιχαηλ και οι αγγελοι αυτου επολεμησαν κατα του δρακοντος και ο δρακων επολεμησεν και οι αγγελοι αυτου
Revelation 12:7 And there was war in heaven: Michael and his angels fought against the dragon; and the dragon fought and his angels,
Revelation 12:8 και ουκ ισχυσαν ουτε τοπος ευρεθη αυτων ετι εν τω ουρανω
Revelation 12:8 And prevailed not; neither was their place found any more in heaven.
Revelation 12:9 και εβληθη ο δρακων ο μεγας ο οφις ο αρχαιος ο καλουμενος διαβολος και ο σατανας ο πλανων την οικουμενην ολην εβληθη εις την γην και οι αγγελοι αυτου μετ αυτου εβληθησαν
Revelation 12:9 And the great dragon was cast out, that old serpent, called the Devil, and Satan, which deceiveth the whole world: he was cast out into the earth, and his angels were cast out with him.
Revelation 12:10 και ηκουσα φωνην μεγαλην λεγουσαν εν τω ουρανω αρτι εγενετο η σωτηρια και η δυναμις και η βασιλεια του θεου ημων και η εξουσια του χριστου αυτου οτι κατεβληθη ο κατηγορος των αδελφων ημων ο κατηγορων αυτων ενωπιον του θεου ημων ημερας και νυκτος
Revelation 12:10 And I heard a loud voice saying in heaven, Now is come salvation, and strength, and the kingdom of our God, and the power of his Christ: for the accuser of our brethren is cast down, which accused them before our God day and night.
Revelation 12:11 και αυτοι ενικησαν αυτον δια το αιμα του αρνιου και δια τον λογον της μαρτυριας αυτων και ουκ ηγαπησαν την ψυχην αυτων αχρι θανατου
Revelation 12:11 And they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb, and by the word of their testimony; and they loved not their lives unto the death.
Revelation 12:12 δια τουτο ευφραινεσθε οι ουρανοι και οι εν αυτοις σκηνουντες ουαι τοις κατοικουσιν την γην και την θαλασσαν οτι κατεβη ο διαβολος προς υμας εχων θυμον μεγαν ειδως οτι ολιγον καιρον εχει
Revelation 12:12 Therefore rejoice, ye heavens, and ye that dwell in them. Woe to the inhabiters of the earth and of the sea! for the devil is come down unto you, having great wrath, because he knoweth that he hath but a short time.
Revelation 12:13 και οτε ειδεν ο δρακων οτι εβληθη εις την γην εδιωξεν την γυναικα ητις ετεκεν τον αρρενα
Revelation 12:13 And when the dragon saw that he was cast unto the earth, he persecuted the woman which brought forth the man child.
Revelation 12:14 και εδοθησαν τη γυναικι δυο πτερυγες του αετου του μεγαλου ινα πετηται εις την ερημον εις τον τοπον αυτης οπου τρεφεται εκει καιρον και καιρους και ημισυ καιρου απο προσωπου του οφεως
Revelation 12:14 And to the woman were given two wings of a great eagle, that she might fly into the wilderness, into her place, where she is nourished for a time, and times, and half a time, from the face of the serpent.
Revelation 12:15 και εβαλεν ο οφις οπισω της γυναικος εκ του στοματος αυτου υδωρ ως ποταμον ινα ταυτην ποταμοφορητον ποιηση
Revelation 12:15 And the serpent cast out of his mouth water as a flood after the woman, that he might cause her to be carried away of the flood.
Revelation 12:16 και εβοηθησεν η γη τη γυναικι και ηνοιξεν η γη το στομα αυτης και κατεπιεν τον ποταμον ον εβαλεν ο δρακων εκ του στοματος αυτου
Revelation 12:16 And the earth helped the woman, and the earth opened her mouth, and swallowed up the flood which the dragon cast out of his mouth.
Revelation 12:17 και ωργισθη ο δρακων επι τη γυναικι και απηλθεν ποιησαι πολεμον μετα των λοιπων του σπερματος αυτης των τηρουντων τας εντολας του θεου και εχοντων την μαρτυριαν του ιησου χριστου
Revelation 12:17 And the dragon was wroth with the woman, and went to make war with the remnant of her seed, which keep the commandments of God, and have the testimony of Jesus Christ.
Revelation 13:1 και εσταθην επι την αμμον της θαλασσης και ειδον εκ της θαλασσης θηριον αναβαινον εχον κεφαλας επτα και κερατα δεκα και επι των κερατων αυτου δεκα διαδηματα και επι τας κεφαλας αυτου ονομα βλασφημιας
Revelation 13:1 And I stood upon the sand of the sea, and saw a beast rise up out of the sea, having seven heads and ten horns, and upon his horns ten crowns, and upon his heads the name of blasphemy.
Revelation 13:2 και το θηριον ο ειδον ην ομοιον παρδαλει και οι ποδες αυτου ως αρκτου και το στομα αυτου ως στομα λεοντος και εδωκεν αυτω ο δρακων την δυναμιν αυτου και τον θρονον αυτου και εξουσιαν μεγαλην
Revelation 13:2 And the beast which I saw was like unto a leopard, and his feet were as the feet of a bear, and his mouth as the mouth of a lion: and the dragon gave him his power, and his seat, and great authority.
Revelation 13:3 και ειδον μιαν των κεφαλων αυτου ως εσφαγμενην εις θανατον και η πληγη του θανατου αυτου εθεραπευθη και εθαυμασθη εν ολη τη γη οπισω του θηριου
Revelation 13:3 And I saw one of his heads as it were wounded to death; and his deadly wound was healed: and all the world wondered after the beast.
Revelation 13:4 και προσεκυνησαν τον δρακοντα ος εδωκεν εξουσιαν τω θηριω και προσεκυνησαν το θηριον λεγοντες τις ομοιος τω θηριω τις δυναται πολεμησαι μετ αυτου
Revelation 13:4 And they worshipped the dragon which gave power unto the beast: and they worshipped the beast, saying, Who is like unto the beast? who is able to make war with him?
Revelation 13:5 και εδοθη αυτω στομα λαλουν μεγαλα και βλασφημιας και εδοθη αυτω εξουσια ποιησαι μηνας τεσσαρακοντα δυο
Revelation 13:5 And there was given unto him a mouth speaking great things and blasphemies; and power was given unto him to continue forty and two months.
Revelation 13:6 και ηνοιξεν το στομα αυτου εις βλασφημιαν προς τον θεον βλασφημησαι το ονομα αυτου και την σκηνην αυτου και τους εν τω ουρανω σκηνουντας
Revelation 13:6 And he opened his mouth in blasphemy against God, to blaspheme his name, and his tabernacle, and them that dwell in heaven.
Revelation 13:7 και εδοθη αυτω πολεμον ποιησαι μετα των αγιων και νικησαι αυτους και εδοθη αυτω εξουσια επι πασαν φυλην και γλωσσαν και εθνος
Revelation 13:7 And it was given unto him to make war with the saints, and to overcome them: and power was given him over all kindreds, and tongues, and nations.
Revelation 13:8 και προσκυνησουσιν αυτω παντες οι κατοικουντες επι της γης ων ου γεγραπται τα ονοματα εν τη βιβλω της ζωης του αρνιου εσφαγμενου απο καταβολης κοσμου
Revelation 13:8 And all that dwell upon the earth shall worship him, whose names are not written in the book of life of the Lamb slain from the foundation of the world.
Revelation 13:9 ει τις εχει ους ακουσατω
Revelation 13:9 If any man have an ear, let him hear.
Revelation 13:10 ει τις αιχμαλωσιαν συναγει εις αιχμαλωσιαν υπαγει ει τις εν μαχαιρα αποκτενει δει αυτον εν μαχαιρα αποκτανθηναι ωδε εστιν η υπομονη και η πιστις των αγιων
Revelation 13:10 He that leadeth into captivity shall go into captivity: he that killeth with the sword must be killed with the sword.  Here is the patience and the faith of the saints.
Revelation 13:11 και ειδον αλλο θηριον αναβαινον εκ της γης και ειχεν κερατα δυο ομοια αρνιω και ελαλει ως δρακων
Revelation 13:11 And I beheld another beast coming up out of the earth; and he had two horns like a lamb, and he spake as a dragon.
Revelation 13:12 και την εξουσιαν του πρωτου θηριου πασαν ποιει ενωπιον αυτου και ποιει την γην και τους κατοικουντας εν αυτη ινα προσκυνησωσιν το θηριον το πρωτον ου εθεραπευθη η πληγη του θανατου αυτου
Revelation 13:12 And he exerciseth all the power of the first beast before him, and causeth the earth and them which dwell therein to worship the first beast, whose deadly wound was healed.
Revelation 13:13 και ποιει σημεια μεγαλα ινα και πυρ ποιη καταβαινειν εκ του ουρανου εις την γην ενωπιον των ανθρωπων
Revelation 13:13 And he doeth great wonders, so that he maketh fire come down from heaven on the earth in the sight of men,
Revelation 13:14 και πλανα τους κατοικουντας επι της γης δια τα σημεια α εδοθη αυτω ποιησαι ενωπιον του θηριου λεγων τοις κατοικουσιν επι της γης ποιησαι εικονα τω θηριω ο εχει την πληγην της μαχαιρας και εζησεν
Revelation 13:14 And deceiveth them that dwell on the earth by the means of those miracles which he had power to do in the sight of the beast; saying to them that dwell on the earth, that they should make an image to the beast, which had the wound by a sword, and did live.
Revelation 13:15 και εδοθη αυτω δουναι πνευμα τη εικονι του θηριου ινα και λαληση η εικων του θηριου και ποιηση οσοι αν μη προσκυνησωσιν την εικονα του θηριου ινα αποκτανθωσιν
Revelation 13:15 And he had power to give life unto the image of the beast, that the image of the beast should both speak, and cause that as many as would not worship the image of the beast should be killed.
Revelation 13:16 και ποιει παντας τους μικρους και τους μεγαλους και τους πλουσιους και τους πτωχους και τους ελευθερους και τους δουλους ινα δωση αυτοις χαραγμα επι της χειρος αυτων της δεξιας η επι των μετωπων αυτων
Revelation 13:16 And he causeth all, both small and great, rich and poor, free and bond, to receive a mark in their right hand, or in their foreheads:
Revelation 13:17 και ινα μη τις δυνηται αγορασαι η πωλησαι ει μη ο εχων το χαραγμα η το ονομα του θηριου η τον αριθμον του ονοματος αυτου
Revelation 13:17 And that no man might buy or sell, save he that had the mark, or the name of the beast, or the number of his name.
Revelation 13:18 ωδε η σοφια εστιν ο εχων τον νουν ψηφισατω τον αριθμον του θηριου αριθμος γαρ ανθρωπου εστιν και ο αριθμος αυτου χξς
Revelation 13:18 Here is wisdom. Let him that hath understanding count the number of the beast: for it is the number of a man; and his number is Six hundred threescore and six.
Revelation 14:1 και ειδον και ιδου αρνιον εστηκος επι το ορος σιων και μετ αυτου εκατον τεσσαρακοντα τεσσαρες χιλιαδες εχουσαι το ονομα του πατρος αυτου γεγραμμενον επι των μετωπων αυτων
Revelation 14:1 And I looked, and, lo, a Lamb stood on the mount Sion, and with him an hundred forty and four thousand, having his Father's name written in their foreheads.
Revelation 14:2 και ηκουσα φωνην εκ του ουρανου ως φωνην υδατων πολλων και ως φωνην βροντης μεγαλης και φωνην ηκουσα κιθαρωδων κιθαριζοντων εν ταις κιθαραις αυτων
Revelation 14:2 And I heard a voice from heaven, as the voice of many waters, and as the voice of a great thunder: and I heard the voice of harpers harping with their harps:
Revelation 14:3 και αδουσιν ως ωδην καινην ενωπιον του θρονου και ενωπιον των τεσσαρων ζωων και των πρεσβυτερων και ουδεις ηδυνατο μαθειν την ωδην ει μη αι εκατον τεσσαρακοντα τεσσαρες χιλιαδες οι ηγορασμενοι απο της γης
Revelation 14:3 And they sung as it were a new song before the throne, and before the four beasts, and the elders: and no man could learn that song but the hundred and forty and four thousand, which were redeemed from the earth.
Revelation 14:4 ουτοι εισιν οι μετα γυναικων ουκ εμολυνθησαν παρθενοι γαρ εισιν ουτοι εισιν οι ακολουθουντες τω αρνιω οπου αν υπαγη ουτοι ηγορασθησαν απο των ανθρωπων απαρχη τω θεω και τω αρνιω
Revelation 14:4 These are they which were not defiled with women; for they are virgins. These are they which follow the Lamb whithersoever he goeth. These were redeemed from among men, being the firstfruits unto God and to the Lamb.
Revelation 14:5 και εν τω στοματι αυτων ουχ ευρεθη δολος αμωμοι γαρ εισιν ενωπιον του θρονου του θεου
Revelation 14:5 And in their mouth was found no guile: for they are without fault before the throne of God.
Revelation 14:6 και ειδον αλλον αγγελον πετωμενον εν μεσουρανηματι εχοντα ευαγγελιον αιωνιον ευαγγελισαι τους κατοικουντας επι της γης και παν εθνος και φυλην και γλωσσαν και λαον
Revelation 14:6 And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people,
Revelation 14:7 λεγοντα εν φωνη μεγαλη φοβηθητε τον θεον και δοτε αυτω δοξαν οτι ηλθεν η ωρα της κρισεως αυτου και προσκυνησατε τω ποιησαντι τον ουρανον και την γην και θαλασσαν και πηγας υδατων
Revelation 14:7 Saying with a loud voice, Fear God, and give glory to him; for the hour of his judgment is come: and worship him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of waters.
Revelation 14:8 και αλλος αγγελος ηκολουθησεν λεγων επεσεν επεσεν βαβυλων η πολις η μεγαλη οτι εκ του οινου του θυμου της πορνειας αυτης πεποτικεν παντα εθνη
Revelation 14:8 And there followed another angel, saying, Babylon is fallen, is fallen, that great city, because she made all nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornication.
Revelation 14:9 και τριτος αγγελος ηκολουθησεν αυτοις λεγων εν φωνη μεγαλη ει τις το θηριον προσκυνει και την εικονα αυτου και λαμβανει χαραγμα επι του μετωπου αυτου η επι την χειρα αυτου
Revelation 14:9 And the third angel followed them, saying with a loud voice, If any man worship the beast and his image, and receive his mark in his forehead, or in his hand,
Revelation 14:10 και αυτος πιεται εκ του οινου του θυμου του θεου του κεκερασμενου ακρατου εν τω ποτηριω της οργης αυτου και βασανισθησεται εν πυρι και θειω ενωπιον των αγιων αγγελων και ενωπιον του αρνιου
Revelation 14:10 The same shall drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which is poured out without mixture into the cup of his indignation; and he shall be tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence of the holy angels, and in the presence of the Lamb:
Revelation 14:11 και ο καπνος του βασανισμου αυτων αναβαινει εις αιωνας αιωνων και ουκ εχουσιν αναπαυσιν ημερας και νυκτος οι προσκυνουντες το θηριον και την εικονα αυτου και ει τις λαμβανει το χαραγμα του ονοματος αυτου
Revelation 14:11 And the smoke of their torment ascendeth up for ever and ever: and they have no rest day nor night, who worship the beast and his image, and whosoever receiveth the mark of his name.
Revelation 14:12 ωδε υπομονη των αγιων εστιν ωδε οι τηρουντες τας εντολας του θεου και την πιστιν ιησου
Revelation 14:12 Here is the patience of the saints: here are they that keep the commandments of God, and the faith of Jesus.
Revelation 14:13 και ηκουσα φωνης εκ του ουρανου λεγουσης μοι γραψον μακαριοι οι νεκροι οι εν κυριω αποθνησκοντες απαρτι ναι λεγει το πνευμα ινα αναπαυσωνται εκ των κοπων αυτων τα δε εργα αυτων ακολουθει μετ αυτων
Revelation 14:13 And I heard a voice from heaven saying unto me, Write, Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord from henceforth: Yea, saith the Spirit, that they may rest from their labours; and their works do follow them.
Revelation 14:14 και ειδον και ιδου νεφελη λευκη και επι την νεφελην καθημενος ομοιος υιω ανθρωπου εχων επι της κεφαλης αυτου στεφανον χρυσουν και εν τη χειρι αυτου δρεπανον οξυ
Revelation 14:14 And I looked, and behold a white cloud, and upon the cloud one sat like unto the Son of man, having on his head a golden crown, and in his hand a sharp sickle.
Revelation 14:15 και αλλος αγγελος εξηλθεν εκ του ναου κραζων εν μεγαλη φωνη τω καθημενω επι της νεφελης πεμψον το δρεπανον σου και θερισον οτι ηλθεν σοι η ωρα του θερισαι οτι εξηρανθη ο θερισμος της γης
Revelation 14:15 And another angel came out of the temple, crying with a loud voice to him that sat on the cloud, Thrust in thy sickle, and reap: for the time is come for thee to reap; for the harvest of the earth is ripe.
Revelation 14:16 και εβαλεν ο καθημενος επι την νεφελην το δρεπανον αυτου επι την γην και εθερισθη η γη
Revelation 14:16 And he that sat on the cloud thrust in his sickle on the earth; and the earth was reaped.
Revelation 14:17 και αλλος αγγελος εξηλθεν εκ του ναου του εν τω ουρανω εχων και αυτος δρεπανον οξυ
Revelation 14:17 And another angel came out of the temple which is in heaven, he also having a sharp sickle.
Revelation 14:18 και αλλος αγγελος εξηλθεν εκ του θυσιαστηριου εχων εξουσιαν επι του πυρος και εφωνησεν κραυγη μεγαλη τω εχοντι το δρεπανον το οξυ λεγων πεμψον σου το δρεπανον το οξυ και τρυγησον τους βοτρυας της γης οτι ηκμασαν αι σταφυλαι αυτης
Revelation 14:18 And another angel came out from the altar, which had power over fire; and cried with a loud cry to him that had the sharp sickle, saying, Thrust in thy sharp sickle, and gather the clusters of the vine of the earth; for her grapes are fully ripe.
Revelation 14:19 και εβαλεν ο αγγελος το δρεπανον αυτου εις την γην και ετρυγησεν την αμπελον της γης και εβαλεν εις την ληνον του θυμου του θεου την μεγαλην
Revelation 14:19 And the angel thrust in his sickle into the earth, and gathered the vine of the earth, and cast it into the great winepress of the wrath of God.
Revelation 14:20 και επατηθη η ληνος εξω της πολεως και εξηλθεν αιμα εκ της ληνου αχρι των χαλινων των ιππων απο σταδιων χιλιων εξακοσιων
Revelation 14:20 And the winepress was trodden without the city, and blood came out of the winepress, even unto the horse bridles, by the space of a thousand and six hundred furlongs.
Revelation 15:1 και ειδον αλλο σημειον εν τω ουρανω μεγα και θαυμαστον αγγελους επτα εχοντας πληγας επτα τας εσχατας οτι εν αυταις ετελεσθη ο θυμος του θεου
Revelation 15:1 And I saw another sign in heaven, great and marvellous, seven angels having the seven last plagues; for in them is filled up the wrath of God.
Revelation 15:2 και ειδον ως θαλασσαν υαλινην μεμιγμενην πυρι και τους νικωντας εκ του θηριου και εκ της εικονος αυτου και εκ του χαραγματος αυτου εκ του αριθμου του ονοματος αυτου εστωτας επι την θαλασσαν την υαλινην εχοντας κιθαρας του θεου
Revelation 15:2 And I saw as it were a sea of glass mingled with fire: and them that had gotten the victory over the beast, and over his image, and over his mark, and over the number of his name, stand on the sea of glass, having the harps of God.
Revelation 15:3 και αδουσιν την ωδην μωσεως δουλου του θεου και την ωδην του αρνιου λεγοντες μεγαλα και θαυμαστα τα εργα σου κυριε ο θεος ο παντοκρατωρ δικαιαι και αληθιναι αι οδοι σου ο βασιλευς των αγιων
Revelation 15:3 And they sing the song of Moses the servant of God, and the song of the Lamb, saying, Great and marvellous are thy works, Lord God Almighty; just and true are thy ways, thou King of saints.
Revelation 15:4 τις ου μη φοβηθη σε κυριε και δοξαση το ονομα σου οτι μονος οσιος οτι παντα τα εθνη ηξουσιν και προσκυνησουσιν ενωπιον σου οτι τα δικαιωματα σου εφανερωθησαν
Revelation 15:4 Who shall not fear thee, O Lord, and glorify thy name? for thou only art holy: for all nations shall come and worship before thee; for thy judgments are made manifest.
Revelation 15:5 και μετα ταυτα ειδον και ιδου ηνοιγη ο ναος της σκηνης του μαρτυριου εν τω ουρανω
Revelation 15:5 And after that I looked, and, behold, the temple of the tabernacle of the testimony in heaven was opened:
Revelation 15:6 και εξηλθον οι επτα αγγελοι εχοντες τας επτα πληγας εκ του ναου ενδεδυμενοι λινον καθαρον και λαμπρον και περιεζωσμενοι περι τα στηθη ζωνας χρυσας
Revelation 15:6 And the seven angels came out of the temple, having the seven plagues, clothed in pure and white linen, and having their breasts girded with golden girdles.
Revelation 15:7 και εν εκ των τεσσαρων ζωων εδωκεν τοις επτα αγγελοις επτα φιαλας χρυσας γεμουσας του θυμου του θεου του ζωντος εις τους αιωνας των αιωνων
Revelation 15:7 And one of the four beasts gave unto the seven angels seven golden vials full of the wrath of God, who liveth for ever and ever.
Revelation 15:8 και εγεμισθη ο ναος καπνου εκ της δοξης του θεου και εκ της δυναμεως αυτου και ουδεις ηδυνατο εισελθειν εις τον ναον αχρι τελεσθωσιν αι επτα πληγαι των επτα αγγελων
Revelation 15:8 And the temple was filled with smoke from the glory of God, and from his power; and no man was able to enter into the temple, till the seven plagues of the seven angels were fulfilled.
Revelation 16:1 και ηκουσα φωνης μεγαλης εκ του ναου λεγουσης τοις επτα αγγελοις υπαγετε και εκχεατε τας φιαλας του θυμου του θεου εις την γην
Revelation 16:1 And I heard a great voice out of the temple saying to the seven angels, Go your ways, and pour out the vials of the wrath of God upon the earth.
Revelation 16:2 και απηλθεν ο πρωτος και εξεχεεν την φιαλην αυτου επι την γην και εγενετο ελκος κακον και πονηρον εις τους ανθρωπους τους εχοντας το χαραγμα του θηριου και τους τη εικονι αυτου προσκυνουντας
Revelation 16:2 And the first went, and poured out his vial upon the earth; and there fell a noisome and grievous sore upon the men which had the mark of the beast, and upon them which worshipped his image.
Revelation 16:3 και ο δευτερος αγγελος εξεχεεν την φιαλην αυτου εις την θαλασσαν και εγενετο αιμα ως νεκρου και πασα ψυχη ζωσα απεθανεν εν τη θαλασση
Revelation 16:3 And the second angel poured out his vial upon the sea; and it became as the blood of a dead man: and every living soul died in the sea.
Revelation 16:4 και ο τριτος αγγελος εξεχεεν την φιαλην αυτου εις τους ποταμους και εις τας πηγας των υδατων και εγενετο αιμα
Revelation 16:4 And the third angel poured out his vial upon the rivers and fountains of waters; and they became blood.
Revelation 16:5 και ηκουσα του αγγελου των υδατων λεγοντος δικαιος κυριε ει ο ων και ο ην και ο οσιος οτι ταυτα εκρινας
Revelation 16:5 And I heard the angel of the waters say, Thou art righteous, O Lord, which art, and wast, and shalt be, because thou hast judged thus.
Revelation 16:6 οτι αιμα αγιων και προφητων εξεχεαν και αιμα αυτοις εδωκας πιειν αξιοι γαρ εισιν
Revelation 16:6 For they have shed the blood of saints and prophets, and thou hast given them blood to drink; for they are worthy.
Revelation 16:7 και ηκουσα αλλου εκ του θυσιαστηριου λεγοντος ναι κυριε ο θεος ο παντοκρατωρ αληθιναι και δικαιαι αι κρισεις σου
Revelation 16:7 And I heard another out of the altar say, Even so, Lord God Almighty, true and righteous are thy judgments.
Revelation 16:8 και ο τεταρτος αγγελος εξεχεεν την φιαλην αυτου επι τον ηλιον και εδοθη αυτω καυματισαι τους ανθρωπους εν πυρι
Revelation 16:8 And the fourth angel poured out his vial upon the sun; and power was given unto him to scorch men with fire.
Revelation 16:9 και εκαυματισθησαν οι ανθρωποι καυμα μεγα και εβλασφημησαν το ονομα του θεου του εχοντος εξουσιαν επι τας πληγας ταυτας και ου μετενοησαν δουναι αυτω δοξαν
Revelation 16:9 And men were scorched with great heat, and blasphemed the name of God, which hath power over these plagues: and they repented not to give him glory.
Revelation 16:10 και ο πεμπτος αγγελος εξεχεεν την φιαλην αυτου επι τον θρονον του θηριου και εγενετο η βασιλεια αυτου εσκοτωμενη και εμασσωντο τας γλωσσας αυτων εκ του πονου
Revelation 16:10 And the fifth angel poured out his vial upon the seat of the beast; and his kingdom was full of darkness; and they gnawed their tongues for pain,
Revelation 16:11 και εβλασφημησαν τον θεον του ουρανου εκ των πονων αυτων και εκ των ελκων αυτων και ου μετενοησαν εκ των εργων αυτων
Revelation 16:11 And blasphemed the God of heaven because of their pains and their sores, and repented not of their deeds.
Revelation 16:12 και ο εκτος αγγελος εξεχεεν την φιαλην αυτου επι τον ποταμον τον μεγαν τον ευφρατην και εξηρανθη το υδωρ αυτου ινα ετοιμασθη η οδος των βασιλεων των απο ανατολων ηλιου
Revelation 16:12 And the sixth angel poured out his vial upon the great river Euphrates; and the water thereof was dried up, that the way of the kings of the east might be prepared.
Revelation 16:13 και ειδον εκ του στοματος του δρακοντος και εκ του στοματος του θηριου και εκ του στοματος του ψευδοπροφητου πνευματα τρια ακαθαρτα ομοια βατραχοις
Revelation 16:13 And I saw three unclean spirits like frogs come out of the mouth of the dragon, and out of the mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth of the false prophet.
Revelation 16:14 εισιν γαρ πνευματα δαιμονων ποιουντα σημεια εκπορευεσθαι επι τους βασιλεις της γης και της οικουμενης ολης συναγαγειν αυτους εις πολεμον της ημερας εκεινης της μεγαλης του θεου του παντοκρατορος
Revelation 16:14 For they are the spirits of devils, working miracles, which go forth unto the kings of the earth and of the whole world, to gather them to the battle of that great day of God Almighty.
Revelation 16:15 ιδου ερχομαι ως κλεπτης μακαριος ο γρηγορων και τηρων τα ιματια αυτου ινα μη γυμνος περιπατη και βλεπωσιν την ασχημοσυνην αυτου
Revelation 16:15 Behold, I come as a thief. Blessed is he that watcheth, and keepeth his garments, lest he walk naked, and they see his shame.
Revelation 16:16 και συνηγαγεν αυτους εις τον τοπον τον καλουμενον εβραιστι αρμαγεδδων
Revelation 16:16 And he gathered them together into a place called in the Hebrew tongue Armageddon.
Revelation 16:17 και ο εβδομος αγγελος εξεχεεν την φιαλην αυτου εις τον αερα και εξηλθεν φωνη μεγαλη απο του ναου του ουρανου απο του θρονου λεγουσα γεγονεν
Revelation 16:17 And the seventh angel poured out his vial into the air; and there came a great voice out of the temple of heaven, from the throne, saying, It is done.
Revelation 16:18 και εγενοντο φωναι και βρονται και αστραπαι και σεισμος εγενετο μεγας οιος ουκ εγενετο αφ ου οι ανθρωποι εγενοντο επι της γης τηλικουτος σεισμος ουτως μεγας
Revelation 16:18 And there were voices, and thunders, and lightnings; and there was a great earthquake, such as was not since men were upon the earth, so mighty an earthquake, and so great.
Revelation 16:19 και εγενετο η πολις η μεγαλη εις τρια μερη και αι πολεις των εθνων επεσον και βαβυλων η μεγαλη εμνησθη ενωπιον του θεου δουναι αυτη το ποτηριον του οινου του θυμου της οργης αυτου
Revelation 16:19 And the great city was divided into three parts, and the cities of the nations fell: and great Babylon came in remembrance before God, to give unto her the cup of the wine of the fierceness of his wrath.
Revelation 16:20 και πασα νησος εφυγεν και ορη ουχ ευρεθησαν
Revelation 16:20 And every island fled away, and the mountains were not found.
Revelation 16:21 και χαλαζα μεγαλη ως ταλαντιαια καταβαινει εκ του ουρανου επι τους ανθρωπους και εβλασφημησαν οι ανθρωποι τον θεον εκ της πληγης της χαλαζης οτι μεγαλη εστιν η πληγη αυτης σφοδρα
Revelation 16:21 And there fell upon men a great hail out of heaven, every stone about the weight of a talent: and men blasphemed God because of the plague of the hail; for the plague thereof was exceeding great.
Revelation 17:1 και ηλθεν εις εκ των επτα αγγελων των εχοντων τας επτα φιαλας και ελαλησεν μετ εμου λεγων μοι δευρο δειξω σοι το κριμα της πορνης της μεγαλης της καθημενης επι των υδατων των πολλων
Revelation 17:1 And there came one of the seven angels which had the seven vials, and talked with me, saying unto me, Come hither; I will shew unto thee the judgment of the great whore that sitteth upon many waters:
Revelation 17:2 μεθ ης επορνευσαν οι βασιλεις της γης και εμεθυσθησαν εκ του οινου της πορνειας αυτης οι κατοικουντες την γην
Revelation 17:2 With whom the kings of the earth have committed fornication, and the inhabitants of the earth have been made drunk with the wine of her fornication.
Revelation 17:3 και απηνεγκεν με εις ερημον εν πνευματι και ειδον γυναικα καθημενην επι θηριον κοκκινον γεμον ονοματων βλασφημιας εχον κεφαλας επτα και κερατα δεκα
Revelation 17:3 So he carried me away in the spirit into the wilderness: and I saw a woman sit upon a scarlet coloured beast, full of names of blasphemy, having seven heads and ten horns.
Revelation 17:4 και η γυνη η περιβεβλημενη πορφυρα και κοκκινω και κεχρυσωμενη χρυσω και λιθω τιμιω και μαργαριταις εχουσα χρυσουν ποτηριον εν τη χειρι αυτης γεμον βδελυγματων και ακαθαρτητος πορνειας αυτης
Revelation 17:4 And the woman was arrayed in purple and scarlet colour, and decked with gold and precious stones and pearls, having a golden cup in her hand full of abominations and filthiness of her fornication:
Revelation 17:5 και επι το μετωπον αυτης ονομα γεγραμμενον μυστηριον βαβυλων η μεγαλη η μητηρ των πορνων και των βδελυγματων της γης
Revelation 17:5 And upon her forehead was a name written, MYSTERY, BABYLON THE GREAT, THE MOTHER OF HARLOTS AND ABOMINATIONS OF THE EARTH.
Revelation 17:6 και ειδον την γυναικα μεθυουσαν εκ του αιματος των αγιων και εκ του αιματος των μαρτυρων ιησου και εθαυμασα ιδων αυτην θαυμα μεγα
Revelation 17:6 And I saw the woman drunken with the blood of the saints, and with the blood of the martyrs of Jesus: and when I saw her, I wondered with great admiration.
Revelation 17:7 και ειπεν μοι ο αγγελος διατι εθαυμασας εγω σοι ερω το μυστηριον της γυναικος και του θηριου του βασταζοντος αυτην του εχοντος τας επτα κεφαλας και τα δεκα κερατα
Revelation 17:7 And the angel said unto me, Wherefore didst thou marvel? I will tell thee the mystery of the woman, and of the beast that carrieth her, which hath the seven heads and ten horns.
Revelation 17:8 θηριον ο ειδες ην και ουκ εστιν και μελλει αναβαινειν εκ της αβυσσου και εις απωλειαν υπαγειν και θαυμασονται οι κατοικουντες επι της γης ων ου γεγραπται τα ονοματα επι το βιβλιον της ζωης απο καταβολης κοσμου βλεποντες το θηριον ο τι ην και ουκ εστιν καιπερ εστιν
Revelation 17:8 The beast that thou sawest was, and is not; and shall ascend out of the bottomless pit, and go into perdition: and they that dwell on the earth shall wonder, whose names were not written in the book of life from the foundation of the world, when they behold the beast that was, and is not, and yet is.
Revelation 17:9 ωδε ο νους ο εχων σοφιαν αι επτα κεφαλαι ορη εισιν επτα οπου η γυνη καθηται επ αυτων
Revelation 17:9 And here is the mind which hath wisdom. The seven heads are seven mountains, on which the woman sitteth.
Revelation 17:10 και βασιλεις επτα εισιν οι πεντε επεσαν και ο εις εστιν ο αλλος ουπω ηλθεν και οταν ελθη ολιγον αυτον δει μειναι
Revelation 17:10 And there are seven kings: five are fallen, and one is, and the other is not yet come; and when he cometh, he must continue a short space.
Revelation 17:11 και το θηριον ο ην και ουκ εστιν και αυτος ογδοος εστιν και εκ των επτα εστιν και εις απωλειαν υπαγει
Revelation 17:11 And the beast that was, and is not, even he is the eighth, and is of the seven, and goeth into perdition.
Revelation 17:12 και τα δεκα κερατα α ειδες δεκα βασιλεις εισιν οιτινες βασιλειαν ουπω ελαβον αλλ εξουσιαν ως βασιλεις μιαν ωραν λαμβανουσιν μετα του θηριου
Revelation 17:12 And the ten horns which thou sawest are ten kings, which have received no kingdom as yet; but receive power as kings one hour with the beast.
Revelation 17:13 ουτοι μιαν γνωμην εχουσιν και την δυναμιν και την εξουσιαν εαυτων τω θηριω διαδιδωσουσιν
Revelation 17:13 These have one mind, and shall give their power and strength unto the beast.
Revelation 17:14 ουτοι μετα του αρνιου πολεμησουσιν και το αρνιον νικησει αυτους οτι κυριος κυριων εστιν και βασιλευς βασιλεων και οι μετ αυτου κλητοι και εκλεκτοι και πιστοι
Revelation 17:14 These shall make war with the Lamb, and the Lamb shall overcome them: for he is Lord of lords, and King of kings: and they that are with him are called, and chosen, and faithful.
Revelation 17:15 και λεγει μοι τα υδατα α ειδες ου η πορνη καθηται λαοι και οχλοι εισιν και εθνη και γλωσσαι
Revelation 17:15 And he saith unto me, The waters which thou sawest, where the whore sitteth, are peoples, and multitudes, and nations, and tongues.
Revelation 17:16 και τα δεκα κερατα α ειδες επι το θηριον ουτοι μισησουσιν την πορνην και ηρημωμενην ποιησουσιν αυτην και γυμνην και τας σαρκας αυτης φαγονται και αυτην κατακαυσουσιν εν πυρι
Revelation 17:16 And the ten horns which thou sawest upon the beast, these shall hate the whore, and shall make her desolate and naked, and shall eat her flesh, and burn her with fire.
Revelation 17:17 ο γαρ θεος εδωκεν εις τας καρδιας αυτων ποιησαι την γνωμην αυτου και ποιησαι μιαν γνωμην και δουναι την βασιλειαν αυτων τω θηριω αχρι τελεσθη τα ρηματα του θεου
Revelation 17:17 For God hath put in their hearts to fulfil his will, and to agree, and give their kingdom unto the beast, until the words of God shall be fulfilled.
Revelation 17:18 και η γυνη ην ειδες εστιν η πολις η μεγαλη η εχουσα βασιλειαν επι των βασιλεων της γης
Revelation 17:18 And the woman which thou sawest is that great city, which reigneth over the kings of the earth.
Revelation 18:1 και μετα ταυτα ειδον αγγελον καταβαινοντα εκ του ουρανου εχοντα εξουσιαν μεγαλην και η γη εφωτισθη εκ της δοξης αυτου
Revelation 18:1 And after these things I saw another angel come down from heaven, having great power; and the earth was lightened with his glory.
Revelation 18:2 και εκραξεν εν ισχυι φωνη μεγαλη λεγων επεσεν επεσεν βαβυλων η μεγαλη και εγενετο κατοικητηριον δαιμονων και φυλακη παντος πνευματος ακαθαρτου και φυλακη παντος ορνεου ακαθαρτου και μεμισημενου
Revelation 18:2 And he cried mightily with a strong voice, saying, Babylon the great is fallen, is fallen, and is become the habitation of devils, and the hold of every foul spirit, and a cage of every unclean and hateful bird.
Revelation 18:3 οτι εκ του οινου του θυμου της πορνειας αυτης πεπωκεν παντα τα εθνη και οι βασιλεις της γης μετ αυτης επορνευσαν και οι εμποροι της γης εκ της δυναμεως του στρηνους αυτης επλουτησαν
Revelation 18:3 For all nations have drunk of the wine of the wrath of her fornication, and the kings of the earth have committed fornication with her, and the merchants of the earth are waxed rich through the abundance of her delicacies.
Revelation 18:4 και ηκουσα αλλην φωνην εκ του ουρανου λεγουσαν εξελθετε εξ αυτης ο λαος μου ινα μη συγκοινωνησητε ταις αμαρτιαις αυτης και ινα μη λαβητε εκ των πληγων αυτης
Revelation 18:4 And I heard another voice from heaven, saying, Come out of her, my people, that ye be not partakers of her sins, and that ye receive not of her plagues.
Revelation 18:5 οτι ηκολουθησαν αυτης αι αμαρτιαι αχρι του ουρανου και εμνημονευσεν ο θεος τα αδικηματα αυτης
Revelation 18:5 For her sins have reached unto heaven, and God hath remembered her iniquities.
Revelation 18:6 αποδοτε αυτη ως και αυτη απεδωκεν υμιν και διπλωσατε αυτη διπλα κατα τα εργα αυτης εν τω ποτηριω ω εκερασεν κερασατε αυτη διπλουν
Revelation 18:6 Reward her even as she rewarded you, and double unto her double according to her works: in the cup which she hath filled fill to her double.
Revelation 18:7 οσα εδοξασεν εαυτην και εστρηνιασεν τοσουτον δοτε αυτη βασανισμον και πενθος οτι εν τη καρδια αυτης λεγει καθημαι βασιλισσα και χηρα ουκ ειμι και πενθος ου μη ιδω
Revelation 18:7 How much she hath glorified herself, and lived deliciously, so much torment and sorrow give her: for she saith in her heart, I sit a queen, and am no widow, and shall see no sorrow.
Revelation 18:8 δια τουτο εν μια ημερα ηξουσιν αι πληγαι αυτης θανατος και πενθος και λιμος και εν πυρι κατακαυθησεται οτι ισχυρος κυριος ο θεος ο κρινων αυτην
Revelation 18:8 Therefore shall her plagues come in one day, death, and mourning, and famine; and she shall be utterly burned with fire: for strong is the Lord God who judgeth her.
Revelation 18:9 και κλαυσονται αυτην και κοψονται επ αυτη οι βασιλεις της γης οι μετ αυτης πορνευσαντες και στρηνιασαντες οταν βλεπωσιν τον καπνον της πυρωσεως αυτης
Revelation 18:9 And the kings of the earth, who have committed fornication and lived deliciously with her, shall bewail her, and lament for her, when they shall see the smoke of her burning,
Revelation 18:10 απο μακροθεν εστηκοτες δια τον φοβον του βασανισμου αυτης λεγοντες ουαι ουαι η πολις η μεγαλη βαβυλων η πολις η ισχυρα οτι εν μια ωρα ηλθεν η κρισις σου
Revelation 18:10 Standing afar off for the fear of her torment, saying, Alas, alas that great city Babylon, that mighty city! for in one hour is thy judgment come.
Revelation 18:11 και οι εμποροι της γης κλαιουσιν και πενθουσιν επ αυτη οτι τον γομον αυτων ουδεις αγοραζει ουκετι
Revelation 18:11 And the merchants of the earth shall weep and mourn over her; for no man buyeth their merchandise any more:
Revelation 18:12 γομον χρυσου και αργυρου και λιθου τιμιου και μαργαριτου και βυσσου και πορφυρας και σηρικου και κοκκινου και παν ξυλον θυινον και παν σκευος ελεφαντινον και παν σκευος εκ ξυλου τιμιωτατου και χαλκου και σιδηρου και μαρμαρου
Revelation 18:12 The merchandise of gold, and silver, and precious stones, and of pearls, and fine linen, and purple, and silk, and scarlet, and all thyine wood, and all manner vessels of ivory, and all manner vessels of most precious wood, and of brass, and iron, and marble,
Revelation 18:13 και κιναμωμον και θυμιαματα και μυρον και λιβανον και οινον και ελαιον και σεμιδαλιν και σιτον και κτηνη και προβατα και ιππων και ρεδων και σωματων και ψυχας ανθρωπων
Revelation 18:13 And cinnamon, and odours, and ointments, and frankincense, and wine, and oil, and fine flour, and wheat, and beasts, and sheep, and horses, and chariots, and slaves, and souls of men.
Revelation 18:14 και η οπωρα της επιθυμιας της ψυχης σου απηλθεν απο σου και παντα τα λιπαρα και τα λαμπρα απηλθεν απο σου και ουκετι ου μη ευρησης αυτα
Revelation 18:14 And the fruits that thy soul lusted after are departed from thee, and all things which were dainty and goodly are departed from thee, and thou shalt find them no more at all.
Revelation 18:15 οι εμποροι τουτων οι πλουτησαντες απ αυτης απο μακροθεν στησονται δια τον φοβον του βασανισμου αυτης κλαιοντες και πενθουντες
Revelation 18:15 The merchants of these things, which were made rich by her, shall stand afar off for the fear of her torment, weeping and wailing,
Revelation 18:16 και λεγοντες ουαι ουαι η πολις η μεγαλη η περιβεβλημενη βυσσινον και πορφυρουν και κοκκινον και κεχρυσωμενη εν χρυσω και λιθω τιμιω και μαργαριταις
Revelation 18:16 And saying, Alas, alas that great city, that was clothed in fine linen, and purple, and scarlet, and decked with gold, and precious stones, and pearls!
Revelation 18:17 οτι μια ωρα ηρημωθη ο τοσουτος πλουτος και πας κυβερνητης και πας επι των πλοιων ο ομιλος και ναυται και οσοι την θαλασσαν εργαζονται απο μακροθεν εστησαν
Revelation 18:17 For in one hour so great riches is come to nought. And every shipmaster, and all the company in ships, and sailors, and as many as trade by sea, stood afar off,
Revelation 18:18 και εκραζον ορωντες τον καπνον της πυρωσεως αυτης λεγοντες τις ομοια τη πολει τη μεγαλη
Revelation 18:18 And cried when they saw the smoke of her burning, saying, What city is like unto this great city!
Revelation 18:19 και εβαλον χουν επι τας κεφαλας αυτων και εκραζον κλαιοντες και πενθουντες λεγοντες ουαι ουαι η πολις η μεγαλη εν η επλουτησαν παντες οι εχοντες πλοια εν τη θαλασση εκ της τιμιοτητος αυτης οτι μια ωρα ηρημωθη
Revelation 18:19 And they cast dust on their heads, and cried, weeping and wailing, saying, Alas, alas that great city, wherein were made rich all that had ships in the sea by reason of her costliness! for in one hour is she made desolate.
Revelation 18:20 ευφραινου επ αυτην ουρανε και οι αγιοι αποστολοι και οι προφηται οτι εκρινεν ο θεος το κριμα υμων εξ αυτης
Revelation 18:20 Rejoice over her, thou heaven, and ye holy apostles and prophets; for God hath avenged you on her.
Revelation 18:21 και ηρεν εις αγγελος ισχυρος λιθον ως μυλον μεγαν και εβαλεν εις την θαλασσαν λεγων ουτως ορμηματι βληθησεται βαβυλων η μεγαλη πολις και ου μη ευρεθη ετι
Revelation 18:21 And a mighty angel took up a stone like a great millstone, and cast it into the sea, saying, Thus with violence shall that great city Babylon be thrown down, and shall be found no more at all.
Revelation 18:22 και φωνη κιθαρωδων και μουσικων και αυλητων και σαλπιστων ου μη ακουσθη εν σοι ετι και πας τεχνιτης πασης τεχνης ου μη ευρεθη εν σοι ετι και φωνη μυλου ου μη ακουσθη εν σοι ετι
Revelation 18:22 And the voice of harpers, and musicians, and of pipers, and trumpeters, shall be heard no more at all in thee; and no craftsman, of whatsoever craft he be, shall be found any more in thee; and the sound of a millstone shall be heard no more at all in thee;
Revelation 18:23 και φως λυχνου ου μη φανη εν σοι ετι και φωνη νυμφιου και νυμφης ου μη ακουσθη εν σοι ετι οτι οι εμποροι σου ησαν οι μεγιστανες της γης οτι εν τη φαρμακεια σου επλανηθησαν παντα τα εθνη
Revelation 18:23 And the light of a candle shall shine no more at all in thee; and the voice of the bridegroom and of the bride shall be heard no more at all in thee: for thy merchants were the great men of the earth; for by thy sorceries were all nations deceived.
Revelation 18:24 και εν αυτη αιμα προφητων και αγιων ευρεθη και παντων των εσφαγμενων επι της γης
Revelation 18:24 And in her was found the blood of prophets, and of saints, and of all that were slain upon the earth.
Revelation 19:1 και μετα ταυτα ηκουσα φωνην οχλου πολλου μεγαλην εν τω ουρανω λεγοντος αλληλουια η σωτηρια και η δοξα και η τιμη και η δυναμις κυριω τω θεω ημων
Revelation 19:1 And after these things I heard a great voice of much people in heaven, saying, Alleluia; Salvation, and glory, and honour, and power, unto the Lord our God:
Revelation 19:2 οτι αληθιναι και δικαιαι αι κρισεις αυτου οτι εκρινεν την πορνην την μεγαλην ητις εφθειρεν την γην εν τη πορνεια αυτης και εξεδικησεν το αιμα των δουλων αυτου εκ της χειρος αυτης
Revelation 19:2 For true and righteous are his judgments: for he hath judged the great whore, which did corrupt the earth with her fornication, and hath avenged the blood of his servants at her hand.
Revelation 19:3 και δευτερον ειρηκαν αλληλουια και ο καπνος αυτης αναβαινει εις τους αιωνας των αιωνων
Revelation 19:3 And again they said, Alleluia And her smoke rose up for ever and ever.
Revelation 19:4 και επεσαν οι πρεσβυτεροι οι εικοσι και τεσσαρες και τα τεσσαρα ζωα και προσεκυνησαν τω θεω τω καθημενω επι του θρονου λεγοντες αμην αλληλουια
Revelation 19:4 And the four and twenty elders and the four beasts fell down and worshipped God that sat on the throne, saying, Amen; Alleluia.
Revelation 19:5 και φωνη εκ του θρονου εξηλθεν λεγουσα αινειτε τον θεον ημων παντες οι δουλοι αυτου και οι φοβουμενοι αυτον και οι μικροι και οι μεγαλοι
Revelation 19:5 And a voice came out of the throne, saying, Praise our God, all ye his servants, and ye that fear him, both small and great.
Revelation 19:6 και ηκουσα ως φωνην οχλου πολλου και ως φωνην υδατων πολλων και ως φωνην βροντων ισχυρων λεγοντας αλληλουια οτι εβασιλευσεν κυριος ο θεος ο παντοκρατωρ
Revelation 19:6 And I heard as it were the voice of a great multitude, and as the voice of many waters, and as the voice of mighty thunderings, saying, Alleluia: for the Lord God omnipotent reigneth.
Revelation 19:7 χαιρωμεν και αγαλλιωμεθα και δωμεν την δοξαν αυτω οτι ηλθεν ο γαμος του αρνιου και η γυνη αυτου ητοιμασεν εαυτην
Revelation 19:7 Let us be glad and rejoice, and give honour to him: for the marriage of the Lamb is come, and his wife hath made herself ready.
Revelation 19:8 και εδοθη αυτη ινα περιβαληται βυσσινον καθαρον και λαμπρον το γαρ βυσσινον τα δικαιωματα εστιν των αγιων
Revelation 19:8 And to her was granted that she should be arrayed in fine linen, clean and white: for the fine linen is the righteousness of saints.
Revelation 19:9 και λεγει μοι γραψον μακαριοι οι εις το δειπνον του γαμου του αρνιου κεκλημενοι και λεγει μοι ουτοι οι λογοι αληθινοι εισιν του θεου
Revelation 19:9 And he saith unto me, Write, Blessed are they which are called unto the marriage supper of the Lamb. And he saith unto me, These are the true sayings of God.
Revelation 19:10 και επεσον εμπροσθεν των ποδων αυτου προσκυνησαι αυτω και λεγει μοι ορα μη συνδουλος σου ειμι και των αδελφων σου των εχοντων την μαρτυριαν του ιησου τω θεω προσκυνησον η γαρ μαρτυρια του ιησου εστιν το πνευμα της προφητειας
Revelation 19:10 And I fell at his feet to worship him. And he said unto me, See thou do it not: I am thy fellowservant, and of thy brethren that have the testimony of Jesus: worship God: for the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy.
Revelation 19:11 και ειδον τον ουρανον ανεωγμενον και ιδου ιππος λευκος και ο καθημενος επ αυτον καλουμενος πιστος και αληθινος και εν δικαιοσυνη κρινει και πολεμει
Revelation 19:11 And I saw heaven opened, and behold a white horse; and he that sat upon him was called Faithful and True, and in righteousness he doth judge and make war.
Revelation 19:12 οι δε οφθαλμοι αυτου ως φλοξ πυρος και επι την κεφαλην αυτου διαδηματα πολλα εχων ονομα γεγραμμενον ο ουδεις οιδεν ει μη αυτος
Revelation 19:12 His eyes were as a flame of fire, and on his head were many crowns; and he had a name written, that no man knew, but he himself.
Revelation 19:13 και περιβεβλημενος ιματιον βεβαμμενον αιματι και καλειται το ονομα αυτου ο λογος του θεου
Revelation 19:13 And he was clothed with a vesture dipped in blood: and his name is called The Word of God.
Revelation 19:14 και τα στρατευματα εν τω ουρανω ηκολουθει αυτω εφ ιπποις λευκοις ενδεδυμενοι βυσσινον λευκον και καθαρον
Revelation 19:14 And the armies which were in heaven followed him upon white horses, clothed in fine linen, white and clean.
Revelation 19:15 και εκ του στοματος αυτου εκπορευεται ρομφαια οξεια ινα εν αυτη πατασση τα εθνη και αυτος ποιμανει αυτους εν ραβδω σιδηρα και αυτος πατει την ληνον του οινου του θυμου και της οργης του θεου του παντοκρατορος
Revelation 19:15 And out of his mouth goeth a sharp sword, that with it he should smite the nations: and he shall rule them with a rod of iron: and he treadeth the winepress of the fierceness and wrath of Almighty God.
Revelation 19:16 και εχει επι το ιματιον και επι τον μηρον αυτου το ονομα γεγραμμενον βασιλευς βασιλεων και κυριος κυριων
Revelation 19:16 And he hath on his vesture and on his thigh a name written, KING OF KINGS, AND LORD OF LORDS.
Revelation 19:17 και ειδον ενα αγγελον εστωτα εν τω ηλιω και εκραξεν φωνη μεγαλη λεγων πασιν τοις ορνεοις τοις πετωμενοις εν μεσουρανηματι δευτε και συναγεσθε εις το δειπνον του μεγαλου θεου
Revelation 19:17 And I saw an angel standing in the sun; and he cried with a loud voice, saying to all the fowls that fly in the midst of heaven, Come and gather yourselves together unto the supper of the great God;
Revelation 19:18 ινα φαγητε σαρκας βασιλεων και σαρκας χιλιαρχων και σαρκας ισχυρων και σαρκας ιππων και των καθημενων επ αυτων και σαρκας παντων ελευθερων και δουλων και μικρων και μεγαλων
Revelation 19:18 That ye may eat the flesh of kings, and the flesh of captains, and the flesh of mighty men, and the flesh of horses, and of them that sit on them, and the flesh of all men, both free and bond, both small and great.
Revelation 19:19 και ειδον το θηριον και τους βασιλεις της γης και τα στρατευματα αυτων συνηγμενα ποιησαι πολεμον μετα του καθημενου επι του ιππου και μετα του στρατευματος αυτου
Revelation 19:19 And I saw the beast, and the kings of the earth, and their armies, gathered together to make war against him that sat on the horse, and against his army.
Revelation 19:20 και επιασθη το θηριον και μετα τουτου ο ψευδοπροφητης ο ποιησας τα σημεια ενωπιον αυτου εν οις επλανησεν τους λαβοντας το χαραγμα του θηριου και τους προσκυνουντας τη εικονι αυτου ζωντες εβληθησαν οι δυο εις την λιμνην του πυρος την καιομενην εν τω θειω
Revelation 19:20 And the beast was taken, and with him the false prophet that wrought miracles before him, with which he deceived them that had received the mark of the beast, and them that worshipped his image. These both were cast alive into a lake of fire burning with brimstone.
Revelation 19:21 και οι λοιποι απεκτανθησαν εν τη ρομφαια του καθημενου επι του ιππου τη εκπορευομενη εκ του στοματος αυτου και παντα τα ορνεα εχορτασθησαν εκ των σαρκων αυτων
Revelation 19:21 And the remnant were slain with the sword of him that sat upon the horse, which sword proceeded out of his mouth: and all the fowls were filled with their flesh.
Revelation 20:1 και ειδον αγγελον καταβαινοντα εκ του ουρανου εχοντα την κλειδα της αβυσσου και αλυσιν μεγαλην επι την χειρα αυτου
Revelation 20:1 And I saw an angel come down from heaven, having the key of the bottomless pit and a great chain in his hand.
Revelation 20:2 και εκρατησεν τον δρακοντα τον οφιν τον αρχαιον ος εστιν διαβολος και σατανας και εδησεν αυτον χιλια ετη
Revelation 20:2 And he laid hold on the dragon, that old serpent, which is the Devil, and Satan, and bound him a thousand years,
Revelation 20:3 και εβαλεν αυτον εις την αβυσσον και εκλεισεν αυτον και εσφραγισεν επανω αυτου ινα μη πλανηση τα εθνη ετι αχρι τελεσθη τα χιλια ετη και μετα ταυτα δει αυτον λυθηναι μικρον χρονον
Revelation 20:3 And cast him into the bottomless pit, and shut him up, and set a seal upon him, that he should deceive the nations no more, till the thousand years should be fulfilled: and after that he must be loosed a little season.
Revelation 20:4 και ειδον θρονους και εκαθισαν επ αυτους και κριμα εδοθη αυτοις και τας ψυχας των πεπελεκισμενων δια την μαρτυριαν ιησου και δια τον λογον του θεου και οιτινες ου προσεκυνησαν τω θηριω ουτε την εικονα αυτου και ουκ ελαβον το χαραγμα επι το μετωπον αυτων και επι την χειρα αυτων και εζησαν και εβασιλευσαν μετα χριστου τα χιλια ετη
Revelation 20:4 And I saw thrones, and they sat upon them, and judgment was given unto them: and I saw the souls of them that were beheaded for the witness of Jesus, and for the word of God, and which had not worshipped the beast, neither his image, neither had received his mark upon their foreheads, or in their hands; and they lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years.
Revelation 20:5 οι δε λοιποι των νεκρων ουκ ανεζησαν εως τελεσθη τα χιλια ετη αυτη η αναστασις η πρωτη
Revelation 20:5 But the rest of the dead lived not again until the thousand years were finished. This is the first resurrection.
Revelation 20:6 μακαριος και αγιος ο εχων μερος εν τη αναστασει τη πρωτη επι τουτων ο θανατος ο δευτερος ουκ εχει εξουσιαν αλλ εσονται ιερεις του θεου και του χριστου και βασιλευσουσιν μετ αυτου χιλια ετη
Revelation 20:6 Blessed and holy is he that hath part in the first resurrection: on such the second death hath no power, but they shall be priests of God and of Christ, and shall reign with him a thousand years.
Revelation 20:7 και οταν τελεσθη τα χιλια ετη λυθησεται ο σατανας εκ της φυλακης αυτου
Revelation 20:7 And when the thousand years are expired, Satan shall be loosed out of his prison,
Revelation 20:8 και εξελευσεται πλανησαι τα εθνη τα εν ταις τεσσαρσιν γωνιαις της γης τον γωγ και τον μαγωγ συναγαγειν αυτους εις πολεμον ων ο αριθμος ως η αμμος της θαλασσης
Revelation 20:8 And shall go out to deceive the nations which are in the four quarters of the earth, Gog, and Magog, to gather them together to battle: the number of whom is as the sand of the sea.
Revelation 20:9 και ανεβησαν επι το πλατος της γης και εκυκλωσαν την παρεμβολην των αγιων και την πολιν την ηγαπημενην και κατεβη πυρ απο του θεου εκ του ουρανου και κατεφαγεν αυτους
Revelation 20:9 And they went up on the breadth of the earth, and compassed the camp of the saints about, and the beloved city: and fire came down from God out of heaven, and devoured them.
Revelation 20:10 και ο διαβολος ο πλανων αυτους εβληθη εις την λιμνην του πυρος και θειου οπου το θηριον και ο ψευδοπροφητης και βασανισθησονται ημερας και νυκτος εις τους αιωνας των αιωνων
Revelation 20:10 And the devil that deceived them was cast into the lake of fire and brimstone, where the beast and the false prophet are, and shall be tormented day and night for ever and ever.
Revelation 20:11 και ειδον θρονον λευκον μεγαν και τον καθημενον επ αυτου ου απο προσωπου εφυγεν η γη και ο ουρανος και τοπος ουχ ευρεθη αυτοις
Revelation 20:11 And I saw a great white throne, and him that sat on it, from whose face the earth and the heaven fled away; and there was found no place for them.
Revelation 20:12 και ειδον τους νεκρους μικρους και μεγαλους εστωτας ενωπιον του θεου και βιβλια ηνεωχθησαν και βιβλιον αλλο ηνεωχθη ο εστιν της ζωης και εκριθησαν οι νεκροι εκ των γεγραμμενων εν τοις βιβλιοις κατα τα εργα αυτων
Revelation 20:12 And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God; and the books were opened: and another book was opened, which is the book of life: and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books, according to their works.
Revelation 20:13 και εδωκεν η θαλασσα τους εν αυτη νεκρους και ο θανατος και ο αδης εδωκαν τους εν αυτοις νεκρους και εκριθησαν εκαστος κατα τα εργα αυτων
Revelation 20:13 And the sea gave up the dead which were in it; and death and hell delivered up the dead which were in them: and they were judged every man according to their works.
Revelation 20:14 και ο θανατος και ο αδης εβληθησαν εις την λιμνην του πυρος ουτος εστιν ο δευτερος θανατος
Revelation 20:14 And death and hell were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death.
Revelation 20:15 και ει τις ουχ ευρεθη εν τη βιβλω της ζωης γεγραμμενος εβληθη εις την λιμνην του πυρος
Revelation 20:15 And whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire.
Revelation 21:1 και ειδον ουρανον καινον και γην καινην ο γαρ πρωτος ουρανος και η πρωτη γη παρηλθεν και η θαλασσα ουκ εστιν ετι
Revelation 21:1 And I saw a new heaven and a new earth: for the first heaven and the first earth were passed away; and there was no more sea.
Revelation 21:2 και εγω ιωαννης ειδον την πολιν την αγιαν ιερουσαλημ καινην καταβαινουσαν απο του θεου εκ του ουρανου ητοιμασμενην ως νυμφην κεκοσμημενην τω ανδρι αυτης
Revelation 21:2 And I John saw the holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.
Revelation 21:3 και ηκουσα φωνης μεγαλης εκ του ουρανου λεγουσης ιδου η σκηνη του θεου μετα των ανθρωπων και σκηνωσει μετ αυτων και αυτοι λαοι αυτου εσονται και αυτος ο θεος εσται μετ αυτων θεος αυτων
Revelation 21:3 And I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them, and be their God.
Revelation 21:4 και εξαλειψει ο θεος παν δακρυον απο των οφθαλμων αυτων και ο θανατος ουκ εσται ετι ουτε πενθος ουτε κραυγη ουτε πονος ουκ εσται ετι οτι τα πρωτα απηλθον
Revelation 21:4 And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes; and there shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain: for the former things are passed away.
Revelation 21:5 και ειπεν ο καθημενος επι του θρονου ιδου καινα παντα ποιω και λεγει μοι γραψον οτι ουτοι οι λογοι αληθινοι και πιστοι εισιν
Revelation 21:5 And he that sat upon the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. And he said unto me, Write: for these words are true and faithful.
Revelation 21:6 και ειπεν μοι γεγονεν εγω ειμι το α και το ω η αρχη και το τελος εγω τω διψωντι δωσω εκ της πηγης του υδατος της ζωης δωρεαν
Revelation 21:6 And he said unto me, It is done. I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end. I will give unto him that is athirst of the fountain of the water of life freely.
Revelation 21:7 ο νικων κληρονομησει παντα και εσομαι αυτω θεος και αυτος εσται μοι ο υιος
Revelation 21:7 He that overcometh shall inherit all things; and I will be his God, and he shall be my son.
Revelation 21:8 δειλοις δε και απιστοις και εβδελυγμενοις και φονευσιν και πορνοις και φαρμακευσιν και ειδωλολατραις και πασιν τοις ψευδεσιν το μερος αυτων εν τη λιμνη τη καιομενη πυρι και θειω ο εστιν δευτερος θανατος
Revelation 21:8 But the fearful, and unbelieving, and the abominable, and murderers, and whoremongers, and sorcerers, and idolaters, and all liars, shall have their part in the lake which burneth with fire and brimstone: which is the second death.
Revelation 21:9 και ηλθεν προς με εις των επτα αγγελων των εχοντων τας επτα φιαλας τας γεμουσας των επτα πληγων των εσχατων και ελαλησεν μετ εμου λεγων δευρο δειξω σοι την νυμφην του αρνιου την γυναικα
Revelation 21:9 And there came unto me one of the seven angels which had the seven vials full of the seven last plagues, and talked with me, saying, Come hither, I will shew thee the bride, the Lamb's wife.
Revelation 21:10 και απηνεγκεν με εν πνευματι επ ορος μεγα και υψηλον και εδειξεν μοι την πολιν την μεγαλην την αγιαν ιερουσαλημ καταβαινουσαν εκ του ουρανου απο του θεου
Revelation 21:10 And he carried me away in the spirit to a great and high mountain, and shewed me that great city, the holy Jerusalem, descending out of heaven from God,
Revelation 21:11 εχουσαν την δοξαν του θεου και ο φωστηρ αυτης ομοιος λιθω τιμιωτατω ως λιθω ιασπιδι κρυσταλλιζοντι
Revelation 21:11 Having the glory of God: and her light was like unto a stone most precious, even like a jasper stone, clear as crystal;
Revelation 21:12 εχουσαν τε τειχος μεγα και υψηλον εχουσαν πυλωνας δωδεκα και επι τοις πυλωσιν αγγελους δωδεκα και ονοματα επιγεγραμμενα α εστιν των δωδεκα φυλων των υιων ισραηλ
Revelation 21:12 And had a wall great and high, and had twelve gates, and at the gates twelve angels, and names written thereon, which are the names of the twelve tribes of the children of Israel:
Revelation 21:13 απ ανατολης πυλωνες τρεις απο βορρα πυλωνες τρεις απο νοτου πυλωνες τρεις απο δυσμων πυλωνες τρεις
Revelation 21:13 On the east three gates; on the north three gates; on the south three gates; and on the west three gates.
Revelation 21:14 και το τειχος της πολεως εχον θεμελιους δωδεκα και εν αυτοις ονοματα των δωδεκα αποστολων του αρνιου
Revelation 21:14 And the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and in them the names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb.
Revelation 21:15 και ο λαλων μετ εμου ειχεν καλαμον χρυσουν ινα μετρηση την πολιν και τους πυλωνας αυτης και το τειχος αυτης
Revelation 21:15 And he that talked with me had a golden reed to measure the city, and the gates thereof, and the wall thereof.
Revelation 21:16 και η πολις τετραγωνος κειται και το μηκος αυτης τοσουτον εστιν οσον και το πλατος και εμετρησεν την πολιν τω καλαμω επι σταδιων δωδεκα χιλιαδων το μηκος και το πλατος και το υψος αυτης ισα εστιν
Revelation 21:16 And the city lieth foursquare, and the length is as large as the breadth: and he measured the city with the reed, twelve thousand furlongs. The length and the breadth and the height of it are equal.
Revelation 21:17 και εμετρησεν το τειχος αυτης εκατον τεσσαρακοντα τεσσαρων πηχων μετρον ανθρωπου ο εστιν αγγελου
Revelation 21:17 And he measured the wall thereof, an hundred and forty and four cubits, according to the measure of a man, that is, of the angel.
Revelation 21:18 και ην η ενδομησις του τειχους αυτης ιασπις και η πολις χρυσιον καθαρον ομοια υαλω καθαρω
Revelation 21:18 And the building of the wall of it was of jasper: and the city was pure gold, like unto clear glass.
Revelation 21:19 και οι θεμελιοι του τειχους της πολεως παντι λιθω τιμιω κεκοσμημενοι ο θεμελιος ο πρωτος ιασπις ο δευτερος σαπφειρος ο τριτος χαλκηδων ο τεταρτος σμαραγδος
Revelation 21:19 And the foundations of the wall of the city were garnished with all manner of precious stones. The first foundation was jasper; the second, sapphire; the third, a chalcedony; the fourth, an emerald;
Revelation 21:20 ο πεμπτος σαρδονυξ ο εκτος σαρδιος ο εβδομος χρυσολιθος ο ογδοος βηρυλλος ο ενατος τοπαζιον ο δεκατος χρυσοπρασος ο ενδεκατος υακινθος ο δωδεκατος αμεθυστος
Revelation 21:20 The fifth, sardonyx; the sixth, sardius; the seventh, chrysolyte; the eighth, beryl; the ninth, a topaz; the tenth, a chrysoprasus; the eleventh, a jacinth; the twelfth, an amethyst.
Revelation 21:21 και οι δωδεκα πυλωνες δωδεκα μαργαριται ανα εις εκαστος των πυλωνων ην εξ ενος μαργαριτου και η πλατεια της πολεως χρυσιον καθαρον ως υαλος διαφανης
Revelation 21:21 And the twelve gates were twelve pearls: every several gate was of one pearl: and the street of the city was pure gold, as it were transparent glass.
Revelation 21:22 και ναον ουκ ειδον εν αυτη ο γαρ κυριος ο θεος ο παντοκρατωρ ναος αυτης εστιν και το αρνιον
Revelation 21:22 And I saw no temple therein: for the Lord God Almighty and the Lamb are the temple of it.
Revelation 21:23 και η πολις ου χρειαν εχει του ηλιου ουδε της σεληνης ινα φαινωσιν εν αυτη η γαρ δοξα του θεου εφωτισεν αυτην και ο λυχνος αυτης το αρνιον
Revelation 21:23 And the city had no need of the sun, neither of the moon, to shine in it: for the glory of God did lighten it, and the Lamb is the light thereof.
Revelation 21:24 και τα εθνη των σωζομενων εν τω φωτι αυτης περιπατησουσιν και οι βασιλεις της γης φερουσιν την δοξαν και την τιμην αυτων εις αυτην
Revelation 21:24 And the nations of them which are saved shall walk in the light of it: and the kings of the earth do bring their glory and honour into it.
Revelation 21:25 και οι πυλωνες αυτης ου μη κλεισθωσιν ημερας νυξ γαρ ουκ εσται εκει
Revelation 21:25 And the gates of it shall not be shut at all by day: for there shall be no night there.
Revelation 21:26 και οισουσιν την δοξαν και την τιμην των εθνων εις αυτην
Revelation 21:26 And they shall bring the glory and honour of the nations into it.
Revelation 21:27 και ου μη εισελθη εις αυτην παν κοινουν και ποιουν βδελυγμα και ψευδος ει μη οι γεγραμμενοι εν τω βιβλιω της ζωης του αρνιου
Revelation 21:27 And there shall in no wise enter into it any thing that defileth, neither whatsoever worketh abomination, or maketh a lie: but they which are written in the Lamb's book of life.
Revelation 22:1 και εδειξεν μοι καθαρον ποταμον υδατος ζωης λαμπρον ως κρυσταλλον εκπορευομενον εκ του θρονου του θεου και του αρνιου
Revelation 22:1 And he shewed me a pure river of water of life, clear as crystal, proceeding out of the throne of God and of the Lamb.
Revelation 22:2 εν μεσω της πλατειας αυτης και του ποταμου εντευθεν και εντευθεν ξυλον ζωης ποιουν καρπους δωδεκα κατα μηνα ενα εκαστον αποδιδουν τον καρπον αυτου και τα φυλλα του ξυλου εις θεραπειαν των εθνων
Revelation 22:2 In the midst of the street of it, and on either side of the river, was there the tree of life, which bare twelve manner of fruits, and yielded her fruit every month: and the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations.
Revelation 22:3 και παν καταναθεμα ουκ εσται ετι και ο θρονος του θεου και του αρνιου εν αυτη εσται και οι δουλοι αυτου λατρευσουσιν αυτω
Revelation 22:3 And there shall be no more curse: but the throne of God and of the Lamb shall be in it; and his servants shall serve him:
Revelation 22:4 και οψονται το προσωπον αυτου και το ονομα αυτου επι των μετωπων αυτων
Revelation 22:4 And they shall see his face; and his name shall be in their foreheads.
Revelation 22:5 και νυξ ουκ εσται εκει και χρειαν ουκ εχουσιν λυχνου και φωτος ηλιου οτι κυριος ο θεος φωτιζει αυτους και βασιλευσουσιν εις τους αιωνας των αιωνων
Revelation 22:5 And there shall be no night there; and they need no candle, neither light of the sun; for the Lord God giveth them light: and they shall reign for ever and ever.
Revelation 22:6 και ειπεν μοι ουτοι οι λογοι πιστοι και αληθινοι και κυριος ο θεος των αγιων προφητων απεστειλεν τον αγγελον αυτου δειξαι τοις δουλοις αυτου α δει γενεσθαι εν ταχει
Revelation 22:6 And he said unto me, These sayings are faithful and true: and the Lord God of the holy prophets sent his angel to shew unto his servants the things which must shortly be done.
Revelation 22:7 ιδου ερχομαι ταχυ μακαριος ο τηρων τους λογους της προφητειας του βιβλιου τουτου
Revelation 22:7 Behold, I come quickly: blessed is he that keepeth the sayings of the prophecy of this book.
Revelation 22:8 και εγω ιωαννης ο βλεπων ταυτα και ακουων και οτε ηκουσα και εβλεψα επεσα προσκυνησαι εμπροσθεν των ποδων του αγγελου του δεικνυοντος μοι ταυτα
Revelation 22:8 And I John saw these things, and heard them. And when I had heard and seen, I fell down to worship before the feet of the angel which shewed me these things.
Revelation 22:9 και λεγει μοι ορα μη συνδουλος σου γαρ ειμι και των αδελφων σου των προφητων και των τηρουντων τους λογους του βιβλιου τουτου τω θεω προσκυνησον
Revelation 22:9 Then saith he unto me, See thou do it not: for I am thy fellowservant, and of thy brethren the prophets, and of them which keep the sayings of this book: worship God.
Revelation 22:10 και λεγει μοι μη σφραγισης τους λογους της προφητειας του βιβλιου τουτου οτι ο καιρος εγγυς εστιν
Revelation 22:10 And he saith unto me, Seal not the sayings of the prophecy of this book: for the time is at hand.
Revelation 22:11 ο αδικων αδικησατω ετι και ο ρυπων ρυπωσατω ετι και ο δικαιος δικαιωθητω ετι και ο αγιος αγιασθητω ετι
Revelation 22:11 He that is unjust, let him be unjust still: and he which is filthy, let him be filthy still: and he that is righteous, let him be righteous still: and he that is holy, let him be holy still.
Revelation 22:12 και ιδου ερχομαι ταχυ και ο μισθος μου μετ εμου αποδουναι εκαστω ως το εργον αυτου εσται
Revelation 22:12 And, behold, I come quickly; and my reward is with me, to give every man according as his work shall be.
Revelation 22:13 εγω ειμι το α και το ω αρχη και τελος ο πρωτος και ο εσχατος
Revelation 22:13 I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, the first and the last.
Revelation 22:14 μακαριοι οι ποιουντες τας εντολας αυτου ινα εσται η εξουσια αυτων επι το ξυλον της ζωης και τοις πυλωσιν εισελθωσιν εις την πολιν
Revelation 22:14 Blessed are they that do his commandments, that they may have right to the tree of life, and may enter in through the gates into the city.
Revelation 22:15 εξω δε οι κυνες και οι φαρμακοι και οι πορνοι και οι φονεις και οι ειδωλολατραι και πας ο φιλων και ποιων ψευδος
Revelation 22:15 For without are dogs, and sorcerers, and whoremongers, and murderers, and idolaters, and whosoever loveth and maketh a lie.
Revelation 22:16 εγω ιησους επεμψα τον αγγελον μου μαρτυρησαι υμιν ταυτα επι ταις εκκλησιαις εγω ειμι η ριζα και το γενος του δαβιδ ο αστηρ ο λαμπρος και ορθρινος
Revelation 22:16 I Jesus have sent mine angel to testify unto you these things in the churches. I am the root and the offspring of David, and the bright and morning star.
Revelation 22:17 και το πνευμα και η νυμφη λεγουσιν ελθε και ο ακουων ειπατω ελθε και ο διψων ελθετω και ο θελων λαμβανετω το υδωρ ζωης δωρεαν
Revelation 22:17 And the Spirit and the bride say, Come. And let him that heareth say, Come. And let him that is athirst come. And whosoever will, let him take the water of life freely.
Revelation 22:18 συμμαρτυρουμαι γαρ παντι ακουοντι τους λογους της προφητειας του βιβλιου τουτου εαν τις επιτιθη προς ταυτα επιθησει ο θεος επ αυτον τας πληγας τας γεγραμμενας εν βιβλιω τουτω
Revelation 22:18 For I testify unto every man that heareth the words of the prophecy of this book, If any man shall add unto these things, God shall add unto him the plagues that are written in this book:
Revelation 22:19 και εαν τις αφαιρη απο των λογων βιβλου της προφητειας ταυτης αφαιρησει ο θεος το μερος αυτου απο βιβλου της ζωης και εκ της πολεως της αγιας και των γεγραμμενων εν βιβλιω τουτω
Revelation 22:19 And if any man shall take away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God shall take away his part out of the book of life, and out of the holy city, and from the things which are written in this book.
Revelation 22:20 λεγει ο μαρτυρων ταυτα ναι ερχομαι ταχυ αμην ναι ερχου κυριε ιησου
Revelation 22:20 He which testifieth these things saith, Surely I come quickly.  Amen. Even so, come, Lord Jesus.
Revelation 22:21 η χαρις του κυριου ημων ιησου χριστου μετα παντων υμων αμην
Revelation 22:21 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.
